https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260411/20260411PM.md; last accessed: 20260412

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The third part in the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious" (Part 4-2)

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-12

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video two weeks ago. It's the third part in the conversation between Okamoto-san and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious." Also, this is now part 4-2.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DHDUFkEFE4c; last accessed; 20260411

> 【文化保存】日本のゲーム文化を後世に残すために今やれることは｜マトリックス大堀康祐さん対談Part.4

## --

This time, Ohori-san recounts that the leaders of the video game industry have laid down the foundation for the next generation. However, many of the ideas that they had thought about when they were creating the games are preserved only in the form of oral tradition. Furthermore, several of them have already passed away, so Ohori-san again emphasizes the importance of preserving these ideas for everyone. Ohori-san also gives the example of publishing books to do this.

More specifically, he wrote the book, "ALL ABOUT DATA EAST," in which he points out that studio DATA EAST had launched several games, including "Trio The Punch," which to the Japanese seem to have no value, though, regardless, for foreigners, the studio has a cool image, particularly with games such as "Burger Time." While, in the end, DATA EAST had to close down, Ohori-san wanted to preserve the studio's contribution to the industry.

For example, DATA EAST established a connection standard through the JAMMA connector used by the arcades, something that not many people seem to know. Thus, Ohori-san wrote the book to share with people the contribution of a studio, which, unfortunately, had to close down in the end.

Okamoto-san also asks Ohori-san about DATA EAST's motherboard, to which he responded that it had been like the Famicom in that it helped the owner of the game center by letting him change games easily like Famicom cartridges.

This is all. I end here this part of the conversation between Okamoto-san and Ohori-san.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike