https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260227PM.md; last accessed: 20260228

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Mobile Game Industry and More

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-28

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Ms. Tapi's YouTube Live Video yesterday evening.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uVt0gDWIf5g; last accessed: 20260227

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ

## --

In this video, Okamoto-san speaks about the mobile game industry. 

He shares that a mobile game that cannot be the number one in the market could be predicted to end soon, because the developer still has to pay for many costs, which include employee salaries and server bills, among others.

Next, Okamoto-san explains that there are three important factors that developers should consider as well. These are: time, technique or player ability, and in-app purchase. Further, the last helps older players save time, because, unlike young players, they can't play for many hours. In fact, Okamoto-san reveals that he's put more than 100 million yen in a game that he liked very much. Therefore, the game should be designed for these two types of users.

Also, Okamoto-san says that the experience of arcade games is really different from console games, because the player bets 500 yen. He believes that this part of the game is lost when the player has the opportunity to play many times at home.

Afterward, Okamoto-san responds to his viewers about several questions. One that I'd like to emphasize is his thoughts about the Monster Hunter Wilds game, which initially seemed that it wouldn't sell well, but is now currently stable. Okamoto-san says that he's more grateful for the sales of the ninth Biohazard game, which has achieved good numbers as well as positive reviews.

Finally, I'd like to share Okamoto-san's recollection about Capcom President Kenzo Tsujimoto and his wine cellar that, in fact, earns him money every year.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike