https://github.com/usbong/personal/edit/main/milestone/2025/202508/20250826/20250826PM.md; last accessed: 20250827

> Stories after marrying via a "Matching App"

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-08-27

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the talk between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Fujita-san, a video game performer.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dCf_td_z9uc; last accessed: 20250827

> ゲーム芸人フジタさんの近況が心配すぎてゲーム倉庫の自宅に凸ってみた【channel fujitaコラボ】 

## --

The topic's about Fujita-san's current situation. He's married a woman younger than him by 14 years. He says that they had met through a "Matching App," which is an application for finding a partner, and they married when he was 45 years old, while his partner was approximately 31 years old.

Fujita-san also reveals that before they married, he and the woman had gone out to check if the latter could bear a child. After passing the exam, the woman soon became pregnant, and they married thereafter.

Fujita-san says that he had sold his video game collections amounting to 10 million yen (approx. 5 million PHP). However, since he doesn't earn much or almost none afterward, he and his wife get into quarrels with each other. After a dispute about an incident where Fujita-san had left their house to go to the hair salon, he can no longer return to the house where the woman lives with their child. It's been 1.5 years since this incident.

Also, Fujita-san should continue to give his wife money each month to take care of their child. However, the woman points out that the amount that he gives is no longer enough. At this point, Okamoto-san explains that these days daycare centers cost 50,000 yen (approx. 25,000 PHP) every month.

Finally, it seems that Fujita-san doesn't have the ability (nor the motivation) to earn more money, and all that he's doing is giving his wife money that he has while waiting for her agreement to divorce.

Although Fujita-san wanted to live with his wife at the start, the problem about money had led to their living separately. According to what Fujita-san says, a partner whose age is distant by at least 10 years wants 10 million yen (approx. 5 million PHP) each year, and if it's at least 20 years, she'll want 20 million yen (approx. 10 million PHP) each year.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike