https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260320/20260320PM.md; last accessed: 20260321

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The continuation of the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious" (Part 2-1)

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-21

## Last updated: 2026-03-22T08:45

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the continuation of the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious."

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Whjc8J9REN0; last accessed: 20260320

> 【まるでアスリート】ゲーセン狂いの高校受験理由がヤバすぎる｜マトリックス大堀康祐さん対談Part.2

## --

Ohori-san says that he had been taking several exams to enter high school. He also admits that to be able to visit the arcades near the train stations, he strived to take the exams from faraway schools, because by using a train pass that could reach those places, he could get off at more train stations before arriving at his destination, and try out games at the arcades there.

Further, he says that in those days, the image of the Otaku wasn't very good, though he believes that this isn't anymore the case these days. Still, because of this, he was afraid to tell his father the real reason why he wanted to take the exams in those faraway places. Moreover, Ohori-san clarifies that the school that he'd enter should be prestigious enough to be accepted by his father.

Ohori-san also shares that, in the end, he decided that a school near the Shinjuku station was the best for him. Still, he discovered very soon that the school he chose was so strict that students who'd even dare go to fast-food chains like McDonald's or Lotteria would get suspended. Nonetheless, Ohori-san is grateful that the school was very close to Kabukicho, which, according to Okamoto-san, is a sacred place for arcade games.

So after taking the midterms as well as the final exams, Ohori-san had 10 minutes to walk the street where he could visit the arcades. This is why he was able to try out new arcade games during times when "location tests" were taking place. 

This is all. I end here this part of the second video of Okamoto-san and Ohori-san's conversation.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike