https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260401/20260401PM.md; last accessed: 20260402

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Situation in the Strait of Hormuz and Its Impact on the World

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-02

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the Strait of Hormuz that is between the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman, and which is also used to transport oil to countries outside the Middle East including Japan.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kX9F8KnwykY; last accessed: 20260401

> 【イラン攻撃】ホルムズ海峡を通過できるようにタンカーを護衛できないのか？｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san recounts that the US has launched a war against Iran and has called on its allies to go to Hormuz and defend it. However, no country has agreed to send its ships. Japan hasn't sent its Self-Defense Force there due to Article 9 of the Japanese Constitution, which doesn't allow it the use of force. Further, it means that Japan would have to ammend the part of its constitution related to its Self-Defense Force in order to comply with this call by the US.

In addition, given that no country seems to be prepared for this war, President Trump has said that he only wanted to know the status of his allies, a statement with a sense of sour graping that Okamoto-san doesn't like very much, because to be honest, he loves Mr. Trump, who is supposed to be the leader of the world.

Next, Okamoto-san explains the reason why the US isn't capable of defending the Strait of Hormuz. He points out that it's because the US is prohibited from destroying Iran's power plants. Thus, Iran could continue to launch its missiles, of which 10% can evade US defenses, which use antimissiles. As a result, US tankers as well as military ships are expected to be engulfed in flames.

Likewise, the US is still incapable of destroying Iran's ground-based missiles which are launched against US ships on the sea.

Meanwhile, Israel is launching its attacks against Iran by targetting the power plants that the US is prohibited to attack. The US is thus grateful to Israel for this.

At this point, Okamoto-san shares his own opinion, saying that he thinks that Iran is just letting Israel do these attacks, isn't punishing Israel for them at all.

Okamoto-san also points out that deploying soldiers is cheaper than sending fighter jets, among other military units in terms of cost. However, what's cheaper is to use antipersonnel mines as well as drones. So if Iran has already laid the mines, the US will not able to launch its attacks on the land.

Thus, as a result, there are countries that don't have more than a month of oil. In the case of Japan, it's said that it still has up to 200 days or 7 months. Okamoto-san explains that when the prices of oil rise, it means that Japan doesn't want the Japanese to use it if possible in order to not deplete too much what it still has.

Next, Okamoto-san reveals that the country that is most affected by this situation is China, which imports a lot of oil. Meanwhile, the two countries that export the most oil are the US and Russia, although it's said that the former's product isn't good.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike