https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260422/20260422PM.md; last accessed: 20260423

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Yoshiki Okamoto's Dream after Retiring at 66 Years Old

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-23

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about his dream after retiring at 66 years old.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K3LC-nG5yGU; last accessed: 20260422

> ゲーム業界引退まであと1年1ヶ月。引退後の展望は。

## --

Okamoto-san reveals that he only has one year and one month before he retires. Furthermore, given that he's worked in three sectors of the video game industry, that is, arcade games, console games and mobile games, he says that he'll be leaving them when he retires.

However, he shares something that his colleagues tell him: A video game creator will never leave the industry. He admits that he still want to create games, though board games this time around. He wants to create a game that could give players the opportunity to change or improve aspects of the game if they wanted. This is why it won't be a complete game in this sense. 

Okamoto-san also wants to create an indie game or something that runs on a sandbox like Roblox for casual gamers using AI. Okamoto-san recounts that many people would tell him that the past era is the best for him, but Okamoto-san still wants to challenge the present era as well. Thus, he wants to launch a game without using his name like before back when he was 22 years old and nobody still knew him in order to provide a guide for the next generation.

In addition, Okamoto-san says that he wants to help the Japanese fund organization that works to promote video game culture. He doesn't expect to receive any income or something similar by donating money, but he believes a lot in this organization and its goal.

Next, Okamoto-san reiterates some things that he wants to do such as traveling aboard a ship around the world and staying in a luxurious room. He says that when he was 52 years old, he wanted to go to an island in Okinawa where he could drink cocktails with beautiful women, while listening to the sound of the waves, but, in the end, he decided to continue working.

Furthermore, Okamoto-san affirms that he wants to continue his investments in a wide range of companies that are related to GPU and AI. He also wants to maintain his investments in Macadamia nut farms in Africa and the Durian farms in Malaysia.

Finally, Okamoto-san asks us about what we want to do after we retire. We can also write our comments about this topic.

Therefore, as a response, I'd like to say that I hope that when we've gotten older, we would not forget the truth that money can improve the goods and services that we receive, but up to only a certain point, in which, afterward, giving more money won't anymore raise the quality, but, instead, will lower it even further. This is because rewarding people without merit only increases the bums. 

This is all. 

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
