https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260519/20260519PM.md; last accessed: 20260520

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The fifth day traveling all over Japan aboard the Asuka III cruise 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-20

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's new video about his experience traveling all over Japan aboard the Asuka III cruise.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e7JHBkeQpfk; last accessed: 20260519

> 【飛鳥Ⅲ】豪華客船の旅5日目にしてトンデモないことに気づきました…｜岡本吉起塾ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san says that it's already their fifth day traveling, so he has several complaints that he wants to share with us.

One is that he's traveling with elderly people aged around 75 years old, and Okamoto-san is only 64 years old. Thus, he's with a group in which the people have tastes different from him, such as, for instance, with regard to music.

Okamoto-san also reveals that they're traveling while visiting several ports in Japan. While they could leave the ship to see what the place has in store for them, Okamoto-san notes that the time that the organizers give them is too short, so in order to visit China Town in Kobe, he found that they must go there by taxi, because it's very far to go to on foot.

Further, Okamoto-san says that although the food, which includes dishes from France and Italy, in addition to Japan, is very delicious, he gets tired of them very quickly, and since there's no convenience store, he can't buy onigiri or some other thing that he wants to eat.

Also, the ship's staff members aren't all Japanese, so Okamoto-san at times must communicate with them in English. Of course, Okamoto-san prefers to talk in Japanese, while traveling on a cruise all over Japan.

In addition, Okamoto-san admits that he has a lot of free, so much so that if he didn't have a job, he'll be very bored quickly. Although there are activities that he could join, they don't interest him very much. And he can't watch Netflix either.

He recounts that he had gone to the ship's casino, and was very happy to win double or more chips playing the roulette, but although he had spent a lot of real money to buy the first chips, in the end, he found that he couldn't exchange the chips for money, or even sake.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that he thinks that he won't be able to endure a trip around the world anymore, even though he had originally wanted to do it. He advises us to also write our comments about his adventure.

This is all. I've written here what I can recall after listening to Okamoto-san's talk.

Before closing, I'd like to comment that free time shows us what we really want to do if time isn't a problem.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
