https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202606/20260630/20260630PM.md; last accessed: 20260701

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Promoting "Meccha Camereon," the game developed by only two people in two months and which has sold 10 million copies

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-07-01

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture where he again talks about the "Meccha Camereon," the game developed by only two people in two months and which has sold 10 million copies, although he focuses more on the aspect of promoting a piece of work.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C3JLQbT9NO8; last accessed: 20260630

> 大バズり中の『めっちゃカメレオン』2人2ヶ月で開発、あっという間の1000万本の大ヒットのマーケティング手法とは？

## --

Okamoto-san emphasizes the marketing method that the studio has employed to promote its creation.

First, he says that, originally, they didn't use any promotion or advertisement. Instead, the two developers took advantage of AI in order to introduce the game to people on social media and gathered reactions. When a feature received positive reactions, they added them to the game, while negative reactions for a feature meant that they wouldn't add it.

Next, Okamoto-san points out that the game's users themselves helped promote the game. Specifically, they uploaded videos wherein viewers could see their mistakes. According to Okamoto-san's explanation, this type of video is really more interesting than one in which players do the task so well that they leave viewers not wanting to try out the game at all. Further, these players created the videos without getting any payment from the studio.

Another idea that Okamoto-san emphasizes is that the game costs only five dollars, the same with a cup of coffee in Japan. So a person, who normally buys coffee from Starbucks at 500 yen, can decide to buy the game instead; thus, it's also easier to recommend the game to people.

Finally, Okamoto-san says that when he watches the videos as well as those from TikTok, he can understand what needs to be done in the game, although the language may be English, Spanish or something else. He also explains that the user interface was done for this very goal. At this point, Okamoto-san reiterates the concept in which he approves a game that is interesting to hear, see, play and play repeatedly.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
