https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260527/20260527PM.md; last accessed: 20260528

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The arrest of Mr. Shinnosuke Abe, the former director of the baseball team, Giants

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-28

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the arrest of Mr. Shinnosuke Abe, the former manager of the baseball team, Giants.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q4szEqpgUNU; last accessed: 20260527

> 巨人・前監督の阿部慎之助騒動に思うことをストレートに言います！｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san reveals that he's a fan of the Giants, so this news made him want to share with us his thoughts.

He recounts that based on the reports, Abe-san was in his house with his two daughters. He was drinking sake when his two daughters began to quarrel. While it was clarified that Abe-san had not hit his daughters, he most probably said hurtful words to them. Further, one of his daughters, for her part, asked the AI about the best thing that she could do, and it answered her that she should call the child counseling center. Afterward, the child counseling center called the police who came to arrest Abe-san.

Okamoto-san explains to us that AI committed a mistake, because the services of the child counseling center should be provided for youths who're under 18 years old. Next, Okamoto-san points out that aside from considering the result of this incident to the family, particularly to Abe-san's two daughters, we must also think about what the father of the family could do to discipline his daughters, especially if force and harsh words aren't allowed by the law, because boh are identified as violence.

Finally, Okamoto-san hopes to revitalize Japan, so he thinks that it's necessary to be stricter and discipline the youth even if the world might disagree.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
