https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202607/20260711/20260711PM.md; last accessed: 20260712

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: A former executive at studio GungHo has been arrested for embezzling money amounting to over 340 million yen

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-07-12

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's news that a former executive at studio GungHo has been arrested for embezzling money amounting to over 340 million yen.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hSWo-13s0xg; last accessed: 20260711

> ゲーム業界の横領事件ってよくある話なの？億単位の不正「ガンホー」元幹部の横領事件を語る。

## --

Okamoto-san explains that it's an incident that also occurs in other studios such as his former studio in Osaka. He further points out that the truth is that there are measures that have been put in place in order to discourage people from committing the crime. However, in reality, there are people who commit crimes despite the existence of additional measures, while there are those who don't commit crimes at all despite the non-existence of additional measures.

Next, Okamoto-san recounts that he thinks that the amount was so huge, because the former executive was exploiting many times over a loophole in the system, which still didn't have a measure to submit reports against people who performed suspicious activities, taking 4 million or 5 million until the amount eventually became too enormous. He also says that while relatively small amounts can evade the eyes of the authorities, this obviously doesn't mean that the problem couldn't grow larger.

With respect to this point, Okamoto-san recalls that he had bosses as well as subordinates who continued to smoke cigarettes until they died of lung cancer. Okamoto-san reveals that they continued to smoke despite having been warned against the negative effects of smoking cigarettes, because the first time they smoked they didn't contract cancer, so they kept on smoking. It was only when they contracted cancer that they stopped, but by then it was already too late.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that this problem happens in other studios as well, particularly among employees who handle money. He specifically gives as example the "kickback" in which another company owned by the same individual receives work with inflated pricing from the studio where he currently works at, so that the person could pocket the money.

Before closing, I'd like to comment as response to Okamoto-san that a simple way that can help us recognize the problem is to look at the number of family members and count how many study or work diligently. Initially, it appeared to me that it would take one more generation to witness this, but it seems that it's a lot faster, within 10 years. Nonetheless, because of this, we would know which people would need more money to cover their expenses.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
