https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260209PM.md; last accessed: 20260210

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Shine Muscat, a Variety of Grapes Originally from Japan

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-10

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the Shine Muscat, a variety of grapes originally from Japan.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LhzlGRw9Jgs; last accessed: 20260209

> タイ産の『シャインマスカット』が話題！国産ブランドのはずが、実際のお味は…？｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

This time, Okamoto-san shows us a version of the product that is sold in Thailand, something that surprises him, because according to him, the Shine Muscat is one that Japan has developed and whose seeds and saplings aren't exported at all. Nevertheless, Okamoto-san has already seen this product outside Japan including Malaysia where he currently lives.

Further, it's not indicated from where the product has been produced, even though it has Japanese writing. In addition, Okamoto-san has found that the taste is quite different. That is, it isn't sweet, nor does it have an aroma. For these reasons, Okamoto-san believes that it cannot be named, Shine Muscat.

Okamoto-san also points out that the Shine Muscat of Japan is grown from mid-August to early October so the product cannot be expected to be sold in December or December 23, 2025, in particular, when he took the video. 

Next, Okamoto-san shows an example of this product that he's bought in Thailand, which, he says, is so big that he admits that he's never seen this Shine Muscat in Japan. His employees' joke is that it's one that was dispatched outside Japan in order to work.

Okamoto-san also shares an announcement that reports that there's the problem of residual pesticide in several of these products. Okamoto-san, however, demonstrates trying out the one that he's bought, and says that one so big costs 1,000 yen.

Moreover, Okamoto-san compares the copies of Shine Muscat with those of software. He points out that although the software, which has been put inside the sold copies, doesn't go bad, this isn't the case with the copies of the Shine Muscat. Therefore, if there's anyone who's bought the copy of the Shine Muscat and thinks that it's bad, the business would fail.

Next, Okamoto-san recounts what Mr. Kenzo Tsujimoto, Capcom's President at the time, had told him: The children, who have touched the copies of their products, will be their fans in the future. It was something that made an impression on Okamoto-san when he heard it.

Finally, Okamoto-san doesn't agree with the arrangement where the consumers are from countries like Malaysia or Thailand, while the producers of these Shine Muscat copies are from China or South Korea. In fact, he wants them to stop this activity, especially because the quality is low despite coming from countries like them.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike