https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251214/20251214PM.md; last accessed: 20251215

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The second part of the talk between Yoshiki Okamoto and Tetsuya Komuro

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-15

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the second part of the talk between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Tetsuya Komuro about the music of Outrankers, the new game from Okamoto-san's team.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9GhU8Bh8uW8; last accessed: 20251215

> 【特別対談】アウトランカーズリリース記念！小室哲哉さんとお久しぶりお話しさせて頂きました！

## --

This time, Okamoto-san emphasizes that the game is playable with two more players. He explains that he had also thought about the number of players who could play with each other if it could be increased to four people, but in the end he decided that he didn't need the fourth person who would have the role of only healing the team. Okamoto-san prefers that the fighters continue to launch their attacks.

Next, Komuro-san says that with respect to the music, nowadays, it should be within 3 minutes. In addition, it's preferable that it can capture the attention of the listeners in 30 seconds. Moreover, on social media, it's even shorter at only 3 seconds. If the listener stays longer, more of the next parts of the song could be introduced.

Komuro-san also reveals that the three girls in the band had never met before this. Komuro-san has brought them together, and is very satisfied with the result.

Okamoto-san says that in developing Outrankers, he chose people with whom he had worked to create Street Fighter II. He admits that they had helped him a lot, so he'd want to work with them again. They all wanted to create a successful product again.

Next, Komuro-san asks Okamoto-san about the gap between successful creators and the unsuccessful ones. Okamoto-san responds that, first and foremost, the product should sell. Now whether it's a fantastic game or not, this factor is only second or third place in priority.

Komuro-san continues to ask Okamoto-san about the way of selling video games. Okamoto-san explains that he currently advises people to put money through its in-app purchase feature, while the app could be downloaded for free.

Komuro-san says that in the music industry, it seems that the market prefers to own the physical object. Buyers want to collect these objects and put them on the shelf. Okamoto-san agrees, and he himself very much wants to collect objects that are really treasures for him.

Finally, the game Outrankers was launched on November 6, 2025.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike