https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260310PM.md; last accessed: 20260311

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The average age of the Japanese is now 49 years old, having increased by 14 years after 30 years

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-11

## Last updated: 2026-03-12T10:03

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the news that the average age of the Japanese is now 49 years old, having increased by 14 years after 30 years.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nqfnc2EHNZM; last accessed: 20260310

> 【高齢化やばい】ここ30年で日本人の平均年齢が14歳も上がっている！｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Further, Okamoto-san explains that faced with this situation, there arises the question about whether or not foreign workers should still be accepted in Japan. According to Okamoto-san, if Japan were to not accept them, the Japanese would have to work more and will not be able to retire earlier. So, most probably, they would have to work until 70 years old.

Okamoto-san also mentions that he has a younger brother who works as a school principal, and has opted to work more after reaching the age of 60 in exchange for a lower salary.

Next, Okamoto-san points out that Japanese people who are healthy could work a lot, but the rest, who aren't so healthy, will still have to try to work due to problems with money.

Therefore, Okamoto-san advises that before getting sick, Japanese people should save and invest, otherwise, they will really have to work a lot until 70 years old. Okamoto-san prefers that people may be able to retire early, especially in the case that some health-related problem were to occur, because, he says, everyone will always have health problems when they get older.

Moreover, while the amount that a person should have will depend on him, of course, Okamoto-san thinks that it should be at least 100 million yen. He also explains that if this person has accumulated 25 million yen, by investing in stocks, he could multiply this amount two, three times, and, therefore, 100 million won't anymore be something that is too difficult to attain. Afterward, using the same technique, he could multiply 100 million yen, and will no longer need to worry about money.

Finally, Okamoto-san says that he also wants to hear our comments, so we can write him something.

Thus, I'd like to say that the person, who can save so much and afterward won't need to work anymore, occupies the minority. Meanwhile, the rest of the people, who haven't worked nor saved as much through investing, will be jealous and will give him problems. Here in the Philippines, I've observed that some of these rich people live in private and exclusive places, but there are always thieves who are trying to come close to them. In the end, the truth is that the world works contrary to what diligent students learn in school. What a person does after obtaining this information will depend on him, of course.

This is all. 

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike
