https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202511/20251104/20251104PM.md; last accessed: 20251105

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Capcom's New Project Related to Esports 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-11-05

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about Capcom's new project related to Esports.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iF3VjNiL6GI; last accessed: 20251105

> 【スト6】カプコンeSports世界大会ライブ視聴権の有料化の決断理由は…

## --

It's about the live broadcasting of Street Fighter 6 tournaments that cost 4,000 yen per day, 6,000 yen for two days, and more.

Okamoto-san shares with us his thoughts on this news.

First, he says that a reason why Capcom is doing this is because it needs money. If it has already made a lot of money, it wouldn't need to launch this promotion so quickly.

Moreover, Okamoto-san admits that it's quite expensive at 4,000 yen per day. Also, he points out that this result doesn't mean that the studio is losing money, but that the game, Monster Hunter Wilds, hasn't made as much money as had been expected.

Although it was announced that Monster Hunter Wilds has sold 10 million copies, maintaining sales in the long run has become a very difficult challenge to overcome. Okamoto-san believes that the explanation for this is that it was in a hurry to celebrate the 20th anniversary of Monster Hunter. Also, he reveals that the game could only make 10 or 15 billion yen, and with this amount, the studio holds international tournaments so that it'll incur more expenses, including more payments for the servers each month, and also the event itself where the tournaments would take place.

Next, Okamoto-san believes that although the price may be expensive at the start, it'll later go down. However, he prefers that the price would instead be cheap at the start and then go up gradually.

This is why, for Okamoto-san, it's difficult to recommend this offer to people. Nowadays, watching movies would cost 2,000 yen so he asks if this offer from Capcom can provide double the value of a movie.

He also explains that as in baseball and the athlete, Shohei Otani, we want to watch the game after hearing that it was a fantastic one.

He also shares that most probably 500 to 600 yen to watch the tournament for the day may be better for viewers like an initial test. 

He adds that tournaments, in general, require a lot of expenses, while they get the money for the prizes from the entrance fees. Furthermore, taking money from the sales to pay for the advertisements means that, at the moment, Capcom doesn't have enough money and it needs this money right away.

In the end, Okamoto-san says that Capcom wants to increase the value of its shares by taking this step.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike