https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260305PM.md; last accessed: 20260306

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Major shareholders of Nintendo planning to sell their shares for a total of 300 billion yen

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-06

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about a news report saying that major shareholders of Nintendo will be selling their shares for a total of 300 billion yen.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=81Voi4O3qx8; last accessed: 20260305

> 任天堂が3000億円規模の株を売り出すというニュースに思うこと｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san explains that, with the assumption that "Insider Trading" is prohibited, it appears that major shareholders of Nintendo have decided that now is the best time to sell their shares.

Okamoto-san continues that if these major shareholders were to indeed sell them, he predicts that the value of the shares will go down sharply by up to 30% or more. Further, he explains that, in general, the best time for major shareholders to sell is before the value of the shares go up. So if the value went up after the shares were sold, it would mean that the shareholders didn't have "Insider Information" or undisclosed information about the company.

To end, Okamoto-san concludes that given that the value of Nintendo's shares has gone down 40%, along with the value of the Japanese currency being currently low, this situation presents itself as an opportunity for investors who want to buy shares. Also, Okamoto-san thinks that the value of the shares will go up again despite the decline of AI. Further, he points out that nowadays more people can already buy the new Switch 2, which was released last year.

Before closing, Okamoto-san invites us to write down our opinions or questions to him, so I'd like to say that it seems to me that owning shares helps an owner raise his personal net worth based mainly on the stock market and without spending unnecessarily. However, if what we want is to spend money, I think that there are other ways to earn money and these would involve cash.

This is all. 

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike