https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202511/20251116/20251116PM.md; last accessed: 20251117

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The creator of Megaman, the new game Outrankers, and something about the next game of a franchise

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-11-17

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the continuation of Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk last Friday.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8QtxIAcJyAo; last accessed: 20251117

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ（25年11月14日）

## --

This time, we get to listen to Okamoto-san's answers to the questions of his viewers.

First, he says that he'll be releasing a video with Mr. Keiji Inafune, the creator of Megaman. Furthermore, he says that if we have some questions that we'd like to ask, we can write them in the space for the comments. He also explains that, of course, there are things that they can't say, but they'd share the rest that are all right.

Next, he received a congratulatory remark for completing the development of Outrankers. Okamoto-san is grateful for the outcome, though he has several feelings of dissatisfaction about the game, particularly on the parts that he wanted to add or improve. 

For example, a 3-on-3-on-3 battle isn't still allowed. They couldn't do it in this version of the game. Moreover, the size of the game's stages has changed a lot in the final version, but he wanted something larger. Also, he says that he wanted to add another character, but the game would have a problem in the balancing. Here, he points out that even if most people don't put more money into the game, it's already one that can be enjoyed as it is.

With regard to the question about the next game of a franchise, he says that, in the case of Street Fighter, they did what's possible to advance each entry in the series. After facing problems during the game's development, including the bugs that might appear when we improve any part of the game, he believes that despite everything, they did the best and so the first game isn't necessarily still the most well done of the series.

Finally, completely changing the next game and still achieving success is a task that, he believes, only Mr. Shinji Mikami and Mr. Hideki Kamiya could do well. So he'd give the original creators the opportunity to create the next game if he could.  

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike