https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202607/20260714/20260714PM.md; last accessed: 20260715

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Mario Kart Tour for mobile is already ending its service offering come September 30

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-07-15

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the news that Mario Kart Tour for mobile is ending its service offering come September 30.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUiHykR7Ubo; last accessed: 20260714

> マリオカートツアーがサービス終了のお知らせ。運営とサーバー管理について思うことは…

## --

First, Okamoto-san says that the Nintendo game has attained 120 million downloads in only a month after its release. Moreover, Okamoto-san points out that it's a wonderful game given that it uses the Mario Kart brand. With respect to its gameplay, it rewards skillful players, but also gives weak players an opportunity to reverse the outcome. 

Therefore, the reason why Nintendo has decided to end the service after six years has to be explained. According to Okamoto-san, while in general it's a well-made game, it's a mobile game, meaning that it doesn't use a controller aside from the touch screen. Further, players eventually get tired of playing it. The game also abruptly ends once in five or seven times of playing it due to bad internet connectivity.

Next, Okamoto-san recounts that although the game says that it uses rankings to match players, in reality, strong and weak players are mixed together. He prefers that its studio, DeNA, had used NPCs (Non-playable Characters) with names chosen by the AI, especially for players with high rankings.

Finally, Okamoto-san adds that he's encountered users who enter the game but only leave it running, something very strange for him, and up to now he still doesn't know the exact reason for doing it.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
