https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251231/20251231PM-2.md; last accessed: 20251231

> Video Game Stories: Continuously Playing Video Games Isn't Worthwhile

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-31

## --

Dear friends,

This afternoon I’d like to share with you my own thoughts about why continuously playing video games isn’t worthwhile.

These are, of course, ideas that I have based on what I personally do with my free time, and you are always welcome to disagree.

First and foremost, I play video games, because they let me do things that are simple to understand. In other words, the objectives and what I’d need to do in order to accomplish those objectives are clear. Moreover, these are things that I don’t normally do at the workplace.

For example, I usually play fighting games instead of role-playing games. The latter could demand over twenty even a hundred hours just to complete. 

On the other hand, when I play fighting games, I have a clear idea on what I’d need to do and how to do it. I most especially enjoy games where I myself would admit that I had made a mistake in my execution or plan. I’d want to play this type of game for about half an hour.

However, continuously playing video games isn’t worthwhile for me, because I found that it has to be balanced with something that is productive in my life. That is to say, I am able to expand my abilities beyond a small video game, which really only holds very little value outside its tiny world and is something that can be changed by its developers as they see fit.

One example that I found myself doing to fill my free time is to practice learning languages by doing a recording of myself reading a dialogue from a textbook to study French. 

More often, however, I would translate news articles I found online or watch YouTube videos in a language that I want to improve on about topics that I want to learn or interest me. 

In summary, I believe that playing video games has to be balanced by something useful in life, otherwise playing them continuously only limits us to a tiny world created by its developers.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike