https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260315PM.md; last accessed: 20260316

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: A Conversation with Kosuke Ohori, the Author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious" (Part 1-3)

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-16

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you the continuation of Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's conversation with Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious." This is part 1-3.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0jy67P6eSjE; last accessed: 20260315

>  【対談】伝説のゲーム同人誌『ゼビウス1000万点の解法』作者とゼビウスをアツく語る｜マトリックス大堀康祐さん対談Part.1 

## --

Ohori-san shares that when a person buys Xevious' arcade machine, he'll find a simple diagram or guide that explains the game. For example, the enemy's attack becomes a little weaker when you destroy the radar on the ground. However, Ohori-san adds that at times the player shouldn't destroy the radar right away and should instead wait for the right moment, when the stronger enemies come, in order to make them weaker. So the player should have a strategy in using this functionality of the radars.

According to Ohori-san, Xevious was like the arrival of the Super Famicom or the PlayStation, which ushered in the capability to display Computer Graphics (CG) through tri-dimensional drawings. However, Okamoto-san thinks that actually the animations of these drawings weren't superior over Xevious' gameplay, which used the two elements of land and air.

Next, Okamoto-san recalls that Namco's game center was in Namba, in the southern part of Osaka. Furthermore, although there was still no internet at the time, he received a phone call that told him that a "Location Test" would be taking place in Namba. Okamoto-san also heard that the RGB colors didn't have the full bits. Okamoto-san tries to explain it by pointing out that instead of 8 bit, 8 bit, 8 bit for R, G, B, it only had 8, 8, 4, because the studio responsible for this task wasn't able to finish it. As a result, the gradation effect couldn't be created. At this point, Okamoto-san says that he'd like to ask Mr. Masanobu Endo, the creator of Xevious, about the details.

Okamoto-san also admits that he had played Xevious without thinking too much, and the only thing that he did was to focus on what moved as well as to use quick reflexes.

Afterward, Okamoto-san asks Ohori-san the price of his book, and he answers that it was 300 yen. He explains that it would already cost 100 yen to play the game, so although he'd feel happy to sell one, he didn't like to feeling of stealing from a friend. So, he thought that if he were to buy it, it didn't seem to him like a waste after playing Xevious three times. In addition, if it cost 500 yen, he thought that it would be too expensive. 

Also, in response to Okamoto-san's question, Ohori-san reveals that the price to print the book was around 100 yen, so he received 200 yen as profit.

At the start, he put the book near the cashier at Namco's game center in Takada Bajo, because he was close to the Namco people there. They helped him sell it and take the payment. In fact, the book became very popular all over Japan, and Ohori-san thinks that it's because the Xevious game itself was very popular in the first place. Okamoto-san adds that the price was cheap as well as the content was well done.

Okamoto-san admits that to be honest, what he had was a copy of the book, something that other people have told Ohori-san as well. Okamoto-san thinks that maybe it's because he was in Osaka, a place very far from Hachioji. Still, Ohori-san reiterates his desire to find friends through video games, because during that time the image of these games was bad. He says that, in truth, all activities other than studying were not good for his father. Okamoto-san details that in those days, the game center was dark, because the lighting was dim so that players could see well the game. There were also cigarettes, among other things.

This is all. 

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike
