https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260206PM.md; last accessed: 20260207

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Decline in the Value of the Japanese Currency and Its Impact in the Lives of the Japanese

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-07

## Last updated: 2026-02-08T15:49

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the decline in the value of the Japanese currency, and its impact in the lives of the Japanese.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Je15-QTxlKE; last accessed: 20260206

> ますます円安が進んで外国にいても生活難…今後どの通貨が強くなる？｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

According to Okamoto-san, when he came to Malaysia seven years ago, the ringgit, the country's currency, had cost approximately 28 yen. However, these days, it costs 38 yen or more.

Given that the price of goods and services in Malaysia has also gone up, there are Japanese workers who are struggling in Malaysia.

Okamoto-san then attempts to explain the reason why the value of the Japanese currency is going down. 

First, he begins that there's a difference in the interest rate of the US dollar and the Japanese yen, such that it's advised to own dollars when the interest rate of the US dollar is high. It's also assumed that when the interest rate of the dollar goes down, that of the yen goes up. However, nowadays, this isn't the case, because the interest rate of the yen continues to decline. 

Okamoto-san thinks that Prime Minister Takaichi's administration is promoting a cheap yen. Okamoto-san explains that the purpose of this is so that Japan could again strengthen its exporting capabilities. Further, through this measure, the salary of Japanese workers goes up.

Still, Okamoto-san points out that to be frank, the salary isn't able to go up very high, because the Japanese also need to import from overseas in order to build its infrastructures. Meanwhile, the prices of goods in Japan continue to go up.

Next, Okamoto-san gives the example of a measure to help the population: Rice that is sold so cheap that it's said that the farmers don't make money. But this cannot be true, because a business ought to make money.

Okamoto-san also talks about the Japanese manufacturing industry, which sells overseas. He shares that when he had been in primary school decades ago, he learned that Japan is a major exporting country.

Further, he admits that when he had worked in the video games industry, he hadn't noticed at the start that the changes in the Japanese currency could have a significant impact on his company, which could do considerably well in spite of it, according to Okamoto-san.

Okamoto-san also shares that he had launched a mobile application, which gives him all his earnings in yen, and he's found out that he could enjoy these earnings more by living outside Japan. He thinks that if he had continued to live in Japan, he wouldn't be able to notice the difference.

This is all. Of course, there are many more things that Okamoto-san has said, but we can continue with the lecture next time.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike