https://github.com/usbong/personal/edit/main/milestone/2025/202508/20250801/20250801PM.md; last accessed: 20250802

> Yoshiki Okamoto's investments in macademia nuts and two boxes of cards from the Final Fantasy x Magic The Gathering expansion set

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-08-01

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you what Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto spoke about last night during his YouTube Live video session. The topic was macadamia nuts, though he later also shared with us something about his two new boxes of the Final Fantasy x Magic The Gathering expansion set. 

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xQ3INlFQyZ0; last accessed: 20250802

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ(25年8月1日) 

## --

He says that in places like Hawaii in the U.S. and Australia, these nuts are expensive, because these are products that couldn't anymore be cultivated in those places due to the now high-costing salaries of their laborers. So Okamoto-san thought of investing in Rwanda, a country near the central part of Africa.

However, he encountered a problem involving thieves and 30% of his earnings had been stolen. In addition, he notes that the guards of the company had shot the thieves and some of them had died. When the police arrived, they told the guards that they had done a great job. 

Further, Okamoto-san says that these macademia nuts are used in many kinds of chocolate bars, among other products, and that the Chinese, for their part, prefer that their shells be kept intact. Thus, in any business, we always need to consider the segment of the market that will be buying our product.

Finally, he showed two boxes of Final Fantasy x Magic the Gathering (MTG), one is in the Japanese language, while another, in English. He says that they cost 250,000 yen (approx. 125,000 PHP), and in a box, there's a chance that the Chocobo card costing 75,000 yen (approx. 37,500 PHP) could be hidden inside.

What I was able to recall when I heard this part is that as an MTG player in the 90's, I hadn't thought too much about this aspect of the game, where cards are bought in order to be sold later, although I knew even during that time that I had to buy some of the cards that I wanted to be able to own them.

Moreover, I saw that there were students who sold their decks at relatively cheap prices, because they wanted to buy something else or do some other thing. This is why, up until now, we still have at home several Super Family Computer cartridges, among other things, which we had bought from our classmates in school.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike