https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202510/20251013/20251013.md; last accessed: 20251014

> Stories from the Community: The case of Don Fan's 1.3 billion yen inheritance

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-10-14

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk last night. Actually, I saw it more than two times, because I didn't understand right away the details. Moreover, I thought that the name, "Don Fan," was peculiar for a person's name in Japan.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUrF7_Dhfrs; last accessed: 20251013

> 【紀州のドン・ファン事件】遺言書は有効か。ドンファンの全財産は誰が手にする？決着は最高裁へ｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san explains that a rich person named Don Fan had a spouse who had been arrested for being suspected of killing her husband. However, afterward, the court announced that there's not enough evidence to judge that she really killed him.

Therefore, the next problem is who would receive Mr. Don Fan's 1.3 billion yen inheritance.

According to Okamoto-san, there are three parties involved: One is the spouse, the second is the relatives and the third is the City of Tanabe in Wakayama Prefecture.

In addition, there's a letter that has a signature very similar to Mr. Don Fan's, and where he said using a red pen that after his death, he wants to donate all of the said amount to the City of Tanabe. Also, in 2018, the high court in Osaka had judged that the signature is really from Mr. Don Fan.

However, in 2024, the relatives appealed the decision that the spouse didn't commit the crime. Okamoto-san explains that it's because they want the money. Furthermore, if the letter were falsified, the whole amount will go to the relatives.

Also, if the spouse isn't guilty, 25% of the amount, or 325 million yen, will be given to the relatives.

But if the letter is valid, nobody will get anything, except the City of Tanabe.

Thus, Okamoto-san says that 75% of the problems about inheritance in Japan involve 50 million yen or less, and 30% is 10 million yen or less. That is, the majority of cases do not reach billions of yen.

Okamoto-san also says that if he were in this situation, he prefers not to receive the inheritance, because it's better to work and earn money. 

He also points out that it's said that people who win the lottery go broke afterward. So people who do not have money should receive none from this inheritance, because they should first understand its value. If not, they'll only spend everything. Also, he says that since the start, these could could survive without having the money from the said inheritance.

Finally, Okamoto-san believes that if the spouse committed the crime, he wants that the court to ask her, and also he prefers that the spouse would say that it's better to donate all the amount to the City of Tanabe.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike