https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260529/20260529PM.md; last accessed: 20260530

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The new Dragon Quest game from Square Enix as well as thoughts about the studio's shares in the stock market

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-30

## Last updated: 2026-05-31T09:37

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about Square Enix's new game, Dragon Quest 12 as well as his thoughts about the studios' shares in the stock market.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ah_3Dn1WDOI; last accessed: 20260529

> 【祝ドラクエ40周年】「ドラクエ12」の発表内容の感想とスクエニ株価についてお話しします

## --

First, Okamoto-san says that the series' first Dragon Quest game was launched on May 27, 1987. Okamoto-san admits that he himself had just entered the video game industry around that time, and he thought that it was a very interesting title. That is, he liked the game so much for its nice screen design, orchestral music by Mr. Koichi Sugiyama and the illustrations made by the much-loved manga artist, Mr. Akira Toriyama.

While both Sugiyama-san and Toriyama-san have passed away, Mr. Yuji Horii, who is 72 years old, is still around to celebrate the 40th anniversary of Dragon Quest. Okamoto-san thinks that Horii-san wanted to release the 12th game of the series this year, but when Okamoto-san saw the ad, he thought that the video was too short, and he became worried. Further, the developers from Square Enix are changing the story to be more cheerful, but, because of this, they must again go back to the very beginning, such that Okamoto-san predicts that they won't be able to release it this year. 

With respect to Square Enix's shares in the stock market, Okamoto-san sees that this setback slightly affects the value of the shares. Moreover, Okamoto-san teaches that, basically, the value goes up when the studio launches a big hit title, and goes down if doesn't. He also says that it's advisable that the value moved in waves, so that investors like Okamoto-san could anticipate its rise and fall. Having said that, Okamoto-san points out that the studio is currently valued very cheaply.

Finally, Okamoto-san agrees that the story must be more cheerful and less foreboding, particularly, to attract young people to play the new Dragon Quest. However, the old players might not agree with this idea. Still, the children, who were aged 10 years old when they played the first Dragon Quest, are now 50 years old after 40 years have passed. Thus, Okamoto-san concludes that it's already necessary to create a new market for the franchise.

This is all. I've written here what I recall about Okamoto-san's talk last night.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
