https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260114/20260114PM.md; last accessed: 20260115

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The new bicycle rules that will be enforced starting April of this year in Japan 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-15

## Last updated: 2026-01-16T10:05

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the new bicycle rules that will be enforced starting April of this year.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qio6chRGiD8; last accessed: 20260115

> 2026年4月より自転車の法改正。どんな罰則が増えてる？｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san gives an example of the penalty when a person on bicycle doesn't follow the traffic signs, costing 6,000 yen. He also explains that in the provinces, people don't really follow this rule, especially when they see that no car is passing the road.

There's also a penalty of 6,000 yen when a person drives his bicycle in the opposite direction.

Next, there's a penalty of 5,000 yen when he drives in the evening without turning on his bicycle lamp.

According to the law, these rules should be followed when a person is already 16 years old and up.

Okamoto-san agrees, and explains that a long time ago, there were people who smoked cigarettes while walking the streets, even though at times the cigarette would touch another person. It seemed that doing this was normal, and when the said incident occurred, it meant that the other person should take care and not get too close to the person who was smoking.

However, Okamoto-san reveals that gradually people stopped smoking even in the office, and Japan became a cultured or well-mannered society. 

Furthermore, Okamoto-san believes that although the penalties won't be strictly enforced, he encourages us to follow the rules. 

He gives the example of Singapore, which, Okamoto-san says, is a very clean country wherein nobody smokes, and there aren't trash. He points out that it's because the rules are strictly enforced.

However, in Japan's case, Okamoto-san believes that if everyone were to follow the rules as a form of habit, then everyone will follow them. He says that he thinks that it's more effective than strictly enforcing them. 

Finally, he gives the example of the helmet. He believes that it's better to use the helmet, even though in actuality people don't use it, unless he has a child who should use the helmet. Okamoto-san points out that in the U.S., he was surprised to see that people were wearing the helmet.

Okamoto-san, therefore, concludes that Japanese people themselves should follow the rules, because if not, nobody, not even the foreigners, would.

This is all. Okamoto-san also spoke about the LUUP, which also has its own rules, but I should already stop here.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike