https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260507/20260507PM.md; last accessed: 20260508

> Stories from Game Producer Shinichiro Obata: The conversation between Shinichiro Obata of Byking and Yosuke Shiokawa of Fahrenheit213 (Part 4) 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-08

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you the next part in the conversation between Shinichiro Obata of Byking and Yosuke Shiokawa of Fahrenheit213.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1NK6tE2vpUM; last accessed: 20260507

> 【#3】ゲームが作られてからお客様に届けるまで…！二人のクリエイターが仕事術を語る！:ゲスト 塩川 洋介【#クリエイター偉人伝】

## --

This time around, Shiokawa-san first asks Obata-san about his recommended way to sell a game.

Obata-san replies that from his experience with his roguelite puzzle game "Dialoop," he admits that, firstly, he and his team have encountered the difficulty that people have in remembering the name of the title.

In addition, he explains that, of course, they've met up with a group specialized in marketing to help them, such that since Obata-san and others think that the game is a lot of fun, the next question is how they can communicate this to people.

Shiokawa-san agrees and shares his own experience with his game "TSURUGIHIME," which has already had three promotional videos. Shiokawa-san believes that they must also think about the way to introduce the game to people, while they're developing their game.

Obata-san also reveals that he usually uses X (formerly, Twitter) and wonders why a commercial attracts him very much. Nonetheless, he points out the challenge of introducing a new game that has never been released until now.

Shiokawa-san agrees, saying that it's really difficult to achieve success with a game that doesn't have a past example whatsoever.

Obata-san adds that when he wants to launch a very original game, he thinks about the game's impact emotionally when people see it for the first time. Thus, he considers how the game would move viewers into action.

Shiokawa-san also explains that games are a part of entertainment. Therefore, it's only a luxury that, to be honest, we don't need in our lives. Further, when we think about what the player is looking for in order to get him to pay money or spend time, Shiokawa-san believes that it should be something that could resonate with the player.

Obata-san then gives the example of movie trailers. He wonders about the way to communicate to the viewers of the trailer that a film will make them cry. Furthermore, he now shares with us that what he currently wants to know is the way to communicate the emotion of laughter.

This is all. I conclude here the last part in the conversation between Obata-san and Shiokawa-san. 

Of course, there's another conversation between Obata-san and another guest, Mr. Shinichi Kameoka, the creator of Seiken Densetsu (Secret of Mana) and others, so let's wait for this next episode.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
