https://github.com/usbong/personal/tree/main/milestone/2025/202508/20250823AM/20250823AM.md; last accessed: 20250825

> The Impact of the PlayStation among Grade School Children in the Nineties

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-08-23

## Last updated: 2025-08-25T13:03

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you some of the games that I enjoyed playing on the PlayStation. I'll be focusing mainly on five games that came out within about three years after the console launched.

First and foremost, the PlayStation was released in Japan in 1994. My siblings and I in the Philippines were able to get hold of the Japanese console by December of 1995. I think that we were among the few in my batch who had one, though we didn't brag about it to our classmates in school.

During that time, there was already talk among grade school students that the PC was going to dominate and there was no longer any need for video game consoles. 

I remember that some of my peers were quite adamant in their beliefs, citing mainly the availability of emulators that could already run on PC old NES and SNES games that they've downloaded from the internet. 

When told that the clock speed in those games would be so much faster given that the processors in the computers at the time were also moving equivalently fast, the remark was easily dismissed by saying that the clock speed could be adjusted in the settings.

I think that what I had in mind was the game, Police Quest, where the square pixels of the walking characters were now moving way faster than the normal speed.

But whatever notion my classmates had about the PlayStation, the games that were specifically designed for the next-generation console were still significantly different from those that came out on PC.

The PlayStation games that I particularly enjoyed during that time were of three types: the ones that I saw at the arcades, the RPG's that seemed like the next great SNES masterpieces, and finally the ones that were completely new experiences.

For the first type of games, the one that I'd like to share with you is Marvel Super Heroes, a Capcom game that came out before the arrival of Street Fighter Zero 2 and 3 in the PlayStation. I admit that I enjoyed Marvel Super Heroes even more than the first Street Fighter Zero. 

It had noticeable lags or loading times, but it was the next best thing that we could have as an arcade game at home. In fact, it was for this game that my siblings and I had bought arcade sticks, which we could plug into the PlayStation. 

In those days, the air combo was believed to be easier to pull-off using the arcade sticks than the standard PlayStation controller. 

We knew about air combos, because Capcom had also previously released X-men: Children of the Atom at the arcades. My classmates in school talked about it a lot, and I think that they went out to play it every week. One of its super hero characters, Wolverine, had also been included in Marvel Super Heroes.

For the next type of games, the game that I'd like to share with you is Genso Suikoden, one of the great RPG's of the PlayStation. Even now, I still think it's better than Final Fantasy VII.

But during that particular point in time, I hadn't yet played a single RPG before, and I knew about Chrono Trigger and Super Mario RPG mainly from my older sibling as well as from the magazines that showcased these games in vivid color and on high-quality paper.

My older brother had bought a copy of Genso Suikoden that's been translated into English and played it during summer. Takuhi from GameFan magazine had written about it positively, saying things like he's been playing the Japanese version and he's excited that it's going to get a U.S. localization soon.

Not knowing any better, I also picked up the game and played it during summer. I finished it before classes started again in June. 

The last type of PlayStation games that I'd like to share with you are those that offered me completely new experiences.

One of these is Tekken 2. While my siblings and I had skipped the first Tekken in favor of Battle Arena Toshinden, Tekken 2 clearly won against the next iterations of Toshinden, and even the other fighting games at the time. 

I thought that the game could be easily picked up and played using characters like Law or Lei Wulong, but still provided depth with a character like King who could connect multiple and successive "body throws" with each other through a series of correctly entered commands.  

Actually, even Law had a memorizable set of combos, though we thought that it was too long and impractical unlike with King's. 

By the time my younger brother had unlocked all the characters including the super powerful Devil, we had also found out about the big head mode, which made the heads of the polygonal characters amusingly large. 

The next game among those that offered new experiences for me is Twisted Metal. My siblings and I mostly played the game's versus mode, though we also knew that it also had a single player mode, where we could change the interface to show a first-person view inside the vehicle.

My favorite had been Warthog, which was a character whose vehicle didn't move as fast as Grim Reaper's motorcycle, but was far easier to win with due to his special that launched multiple "fire" missiles at the same time, and whose big armored body could also deal massive damage upon hitting the opponent.

The usual piece of news about the game was that the developers were already working on making more "Cyburbia"-type levels where the vehicles could roam around a huge city like in the real world.

The last game that I'd like to share with you is PoyPoy, another Konami game whose multiplayer mode using the PlayStation's multitap got my younger sister to join us for four-player evening battles. 

Its gameplay and controls proved to be simple enough for her to understand and play. Moreover, even though the graphics were hardly realistic, she was able to choose a character from among the roster, granted that it had to be the same name as hers.  

Finally, I thought that getting her to learn the game with us was also key. Others may have simply bombarded her with the throwable missiles right at the start, but having people who wouldn't mind showing her how to play the game first was important. Admittedly, games like Street Fighter II (New Challengers Edition) on the SNES proved to be too much of challenge for her to win against us despite whatever training we gave.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike