https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260525/20260525PM.md; last accessed: 20260526

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The value of attitude and changing our mentality during times when graduates can't find regular work despite their ability

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-26

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you what Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Ms. Tapi shared with us about the value of attitude and changing our mentality during times when graduates can't find regular work despite their ability.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zdcsc6yoIq4; last accessed: 20260525

> 就職氷河期世代が、これからを生き抜くためのマインドセット｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san says that his own team, which helps him create YouTube videos, has told him that they had experienced this situation. On the other hand, Okamoto-san thinks that it wasn't so terrible during his era, and teaches us the importance of having an attitude of not feeling dejected when something bad happens and to hope for a brighter future.

Okamoto-san also teaches that new graduates have a higher chance to find work. Further, Okamoto-san reveals that the level or status of the company that a person could enter is, in reality, lower than what he may think. So, instead of a regular job, a person can only get part-time work. And, sometimes, instead of a big company, he can only enter a medium-sized one.

Next, Okamoto-san asks us if we think that a person could still improve his life after working in this way.

Okamoto-san gives the example of Ms. Tapi who had entered his studio, Game Republic, but after only six months, they did a company restructuring. However, with the help of Okamoto-san as well as her own efforts, Ms. Tapi was able to change the direction of her life and now has a brighter one.

Okamoto-san wonders how he can help the rest who struggle in this situation. He thinks that first they must change their mentality of blaming other people for their bad luck. So when a person encounters a big problem, if he decides to change this mentality, Okamoto-san believes that he'll be able to have a better future.

Moreover, Okamoto-san gives as example his own life in which he was able to enter Capcom, live comfortably and achieve success, but after leaving Capcom to establish his own studio, he would go bankrupt and would have a debt of 1.7 billion yen. He also admits that he had felt terrible for three years, but decided to change his mentality and would be able to again get an opportunity that he took in order to finally achieve success with a mobile application called Monster Strike.

Further, Okamoto-san highlights AI, advising us to study it, because it's said that it could bring down the cost by half, although Okamoto-san thinks that it's 1/8 in studios that develop video games. Okamoto-san also recounts that a person that has a secondary job could use what he saves to invest and not spend it only for the sake of raising his style of living. He could thus change his life for the better.

With respect to this point, Okamoto-san shares that Ms. Tapi, for instance, moved to Malaysia from Japan, and for six years continued to work with Okamoto-san's team without getting a salary that becomes higher and higher. However, he mentions that his company covers the cost of her housing, while Ms. Tapi continues to invest based on Okamoto-san's guidance, pointing out that it's easier to make money if we already have assets. In addition, he informs us that a married couple in Canada was able to get a profit of up to 70%, a very amazing achievement.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that we can also achieve success if we don't improve our lifestyle, and instead, we invest in a secondary job or AI in order to reach a higher position.

Before closing, I'd like to comment as my response to Okamoto-san that there's a story that's being circulated by my cousins and other noisy people using towers and speakers, among others, that Okamoto-san was only able to achieve his big success by selling his house in Den-en-chofu for an incredibly high price. Moreover, he used a portion of the earnings to invest in his own mobile app, Monster Strike, which he could use to explain his success in the video game industry. In any case, this means that Okamoto-san was able to make money by selling an asset that was valued so much higher than what he had paid for initially.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
