https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260330/20260330PM.md; last accessed: 20260331

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Shortest Path to Becoming a Video Game Creator

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-31

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video about the shortest path to becoming a video game creator. I think that the video's interesting, if a bit long content-wise.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=obb30SZ1hdY; last accessed: 20260330

> 【人気業種】そこそこ売れるゲームクリエイターになる最短ルートを教えます！

## --

First, Okamoto-san wants to emphasize that when he talks about becoming a video game creator, what he means are the high-ranking positions like, for example, director, producer or lead programmer in a studio. This is because, he explains, a graduate can come to Nintendo, and therefore proclaim that he's already a video game creator.

But in a fairly large studio wherein there are 300 or 400 people, only one person would be chosen to be the leader of a certain division.

So, Okamoto-san advises that what's necessary is to accumulate experiences. Okamoto-san gives the example of Roblox in which 1,000 games are uploaded every day. Thus, a new creator can learn the system used at Roblox in order to release his own game. Afterward, he can use this experience when he communicates with the studio to get funding or work.

Okamoto-san also recounts that he began in the video game industry creating games for the arcades, and afterward for consoles. Later on, he got the opportunity to create mobile games, and finally, this time, he's trying to create one for a sandbox-type of environment like Roblox.

Okamoto-san also mentions the importance of creating a game with as few colleagues as possible to lower the risk. Being solo isn't bad either. With respect to making money, Okamoto-san reiterates the in-app purchase feature.

In the end, Okamoto-san concludes by giving the example of his employee, Ms. Oku, who has created a game for Roblox using AI. Although it was only a test, and still didn't have a multiplayer mode, Okamoto-san believes that nowadays if we only worked in earnest, we'll surely be able to create something great.

Before closing, as response to Okamoto-san's advice to write our comments, I'd like to say that many people who grew up playing games have the dream of creating them. However, they choose more the direction toward drawing instead of programming. When I began my studies, I wanted to do both drawing and programming. But I found out that during that time I had to focus on programming in order to take the classes that I liked, but had requirements such as Math and others. This is why I didn't really have any formal training on drawing through the classes at the university. In the end, after many years, I think that illustrators don't have job security unlike programmers.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike