https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/2025/202506/20250613.md; last accessed: 20250613

> The worries of Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto about his upcoming retirement in two years | An unwanted medicine inside the drink?! And its solution

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-06-13

## Last updated: 2025-06-14T09:12

## --

Dear friends,

Today I have two pieces of news for all of you.

The first is about the lecture from Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto regarding his current thoughts and worries, especially because only two years remain before his retirement.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wsnRQ7pUUpc; last accessed: 20250613

> 【雑談】6/10付で64歳になりました。引退までの2年間のゲームのお仕事について語ります。

## --

The second is about an experience I just had when I went out with the family to have dinner at Ayala Malls Feliz in Pasig City.

Mr. Okamoto celebrated his birthday on the 10th of June, and he says that only two more years remain before his retirement. Of course, he thinks about what kind of life he'll want to have when this momentous occasion finally arrives.

In his lecture, he talks about stocks of Japanese companies that are in the automobile industry. He mentions brands like Mitsubishi and Nissan, although he's afraid of investing in them, something very curious for him, because after several decades, the impression that people should have is that they are already well-established companies.

Further, he shares that Rolex watches are very valuable, even though the company's stock prices have gone done by up to 20% due to President Trump's tariffs. He also says that these watches are used like gold in that after many years, their value only goes up, even if the stock prices of the said company don't. Mr. Okamoto explains that it's because more people in Malaysia and Indonesia, among other countries, have become rich so that people now understand that having these luxury items means possessing something rare and precious.

Next, I'd like to share with you that my family invited me for dinner last night, and I discovered that there was in our drink, I believe that it had been in the water of the genmai tea, something like a mixture of medicine that made me dizzy. I've already informed the waitress in the restaurant as well as the concierge of the mall about this incident.

Thus we're again back to the yet unsolved problem of people who don't really work give more work to those who do. As in my case, I had to make reports instead of enjoy the evening. In the end, fewer family members who don't work helps everyone.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike