https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/2025/202506/20250604.md; last accessed: 20250604

> Analysis of the "Important Announcement about AWS Service & AWS Marketplace Purchases" from Amazon Web Services

> Writer

[Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date

2025-06-04
 
## --

Dear friends,

There's an "Important Announcement about AWS Service & AWS Marketplace Purchases" from Amazon Web Services.

It's for account holders whose registered address is the Philippines.

Verifying the contents of the announcement, I found the following to be the salient point. 

## --

"AWS will commence invoicing 12% VAT on AWS Services and AWS Marketplace purchases provided from July 1, 2025."

## --

This means that prices will be going up for customers in the Philippines. 

Perhaps there may be those who thought that AWS will be shouldering the additional 12% VAT fee for its customers so that the prices would already include the increase and still remain as they are.

However, the company has decided that customers in the Philippines ought to pay the 12% VAT due to their government themselves. 

Here is [the circular](https://bir-cdn.bir.gov.ph/BIR/pdf/RR%20No.%203-2025.pdf) from the Philippines' Bureau of Internal Revenue detailing Revenue Regulation No. 003-2025 in order to implement Republic Act No. 12023, which pertains to "Imposing the Value-Added Tax on Digital Services."

The announcement also provided guidelines for those who've registered their accounts with AWS as either a non-business or a business.

My understanding is that either would need to pay the 12% VAT, but with the difference in that the former would receive invoices with the 12% VAT already included, while the latter won't but would later have to pay the 12% VAT when they file for their tax withheld in accordance with the aforementioned regulation.

Finally, AWS has provided the following recommendation.

## --

"Please seek advice from your Tax/Finance/Accounting team or advisors on any obligations you may have under Philippine tax law." 

## --

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike