https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/2025/202506/20250605.md; last accessed: 20250605

> Listening to Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Aniki from Bali's Conversation#4 (FINAL): "How do we get Japanese people to be more active in world affairs?" 

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起先生およびバリの兄貴との対談【最終編】：「日本人が世界で活躍するには？」

> Writer

[Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date

2025-06-05

## --

Dear friends,

Yesterday evening, Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto continued with his talk with Mr. Aniki from Bali. He says that it's already their fourth video and that it'll be the last for the said series.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7FpmPjrn8rc; last accessed: 20250604

> 【バリ島アニキの教え】日本人が海外で成功する秘訣を大公開！(丸尾孝俊さん対談④) #アニキリゾートライフ #神様はバリにいる

## --

In their talk, Mr. Okamoto first began with a question: "How do we get Japanese people to be more active in world affairs?" 

Mr. Aniki answered that the Japanese should first be in an environment where they could learn well. To give an example, he cited the case of learning the Japanese language. He says that sometimes, there are young Japanese who begin learning English, even though their level in their mother tongue is still low. This is why Mr. Aniki recommends that Japanese people should first achieve a skill level that would enable them to communicate effectively in their mother tongue.

Next, Mr. Okamoto spoke about his own personal experience during his time at Konami. He said that it was there where he began work, and now, several years later, he is grateful to his seniors (the senpai's) during his time there for making him learn many things about game design and production. 

Mr. Okamoto explains that the objective of his senpai's had been to measure his ability, and he was made to strive hard doing work related to game design, among others, even if he didn't anymore get too much time to sleep. Afterward, especially during the time when he transferred to Capcom, he realized that the training he underwent at Konami turned out to be incredibly useful.

Finally, Mr. Aniki says that the senpai's help the neophytes, because these young people can ask them questions about things that they don't understand.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
