https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/2025/202506/20250606.md; last accessed: 20250606

> Two reasons why the arcades in the U.S. were more difficult than those in Japan according to Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto 

> Writer

[Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date

2025-06-06

## Last updated: 2025-06-06T15:42

## --

Dear friends,

Tonight we have a new lecture from Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto on the reason why the arcades in the U.S. were more difficult than those in Japan.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=teo2v7ouhcY; last accessed: 20250606

>【スト2】アメリカ版のゲームを難易度高く設定していた理由は…？

## --

He gives us two reasons.

First, Mr. Okamoto explains that the price to play a game in the U.S. had only been 0.25 USD instead of 100 yen. During that time, 0.25 USD converted to 25 yen.

Thus, the owners in the U.S. thought that it would be better if the games were a lot more difficult so that players could put in more money playing them.

It was part of what compelled players to continue on playing the arcade game. Meanwhile, the owners were able to make money despite having to pay for business-related expenses such as the rent for the place, the game itself, and the staff.

The second reason is that there was a system employed in U.S. stores that allowed players to buy a game, and then be able to return it within two weeks. This is why the games at the time needed to have a high level of difficulty so that players couldn't finish them within that span of time.

Finally, he tells a story about Biohazard (or Resident Evil) for the first PlayStation, saying that it had been designed to frighten players. It's for this reason that consumable items always felt scarce. Things like the bullets to shoot the zombies, and the ink ribbons to save the player's progress were intended to feel constantly insufficient. Also, even though the bullets would at times miss and not hit the zombies, players didn't really see it as a design flaw. On the contrary, it made them feel even more frightened, in addition to making the game a lot more challenging as a result.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike