https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/2025/202506/20250617.md; last accessed: 20250617

> Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto explains: "Where do you put your money?"

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-06-17

## Last updated: 2025-06-19T11:55

## --

Dear friends,

Last night, Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto shared with us an idea about stocks that we've already heard before from his other videos. But maybe, just like in my case, we'd like to know if there's anything new or something that we can understand more about the topic.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9R_AADDTI0I; last accessed: 20250617

> 株式投資、現金はいくら証券口座に残すのが正解？

## --

Okamoto-san says that the question, "Where do you put your money," is a way for people to know our financial status. In particular, he teaches that, generally speaking, the recommended asset model has 30% in stocks, 30% in real estate properties, 30% in cash, and finally 10% in gold.

He explains that stocks move like waves so that the basic idea is to sell when we're at the top of the wave, and buy when we're at the bottom. Moreover, he says that every two years a major drop in the value of stocks occurs and that we go buy them when that moment comes.

He also advises that we use the cash that we have to buy stocks whose value has gone down and we are sure that the only thing that they can do is to go up.

Finally, he mentions again S&P to do this task, although he explains that even in the said platform there are stocks whose values don't rise at all.

Thus, "How many years do we have to wait?" or if we've already bought several stocks, "Until when are we going to wait for the change that'll improve the situation?"

I find that many people who are in a hurry to make a lot of money make more mistakes than usual. However, if we're that guy who doesn't have much time, the intelligent thing that we can do is to investigate thoroughly what other people have done and find out what their situation is afterward.

At this point, I want to emphasize that the ability to discern which person lies and which one tells the truth will be invaluable in helping us achieve success.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike