https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/2025/202506/20250614.md; last accessed: 20250614

> Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto's thoughts on the game, "Tsukuyomi: The Divine Hunter," by Kazuma Kaneko

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-06-14

## --

Dear friends,

Last night, Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto shared with us his thoughts on the game, Tsukuyomi: The Divine Hunter, by Mr. Kazuma Kaneko. It's a roguelike for mobile devices where cards are used in the battles.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EFTkljPSnMQ; last accessed: 20250614

> 【ガチレビュー】女神転生を彷彿とさせるカードバトル『神魔狩りのツクヨミ』を毎日プレイしてみた感想

## --

After an hour or two of playing the game, Mr. Okamoto believes that its gameplay is very similar or even equal to "The Spire," although he explains that in the video games industry people take the parts that they like and improve them. This means that even though other components of the game are similar, the game can have a horizontal view, instead of a vertical one to become a better version, in addition to being different. 

Next, he says that the game has several parts that he doesn't like. For example, after playing the game for an hour, he discovered that when the player's character dies, he has to return to the beginning of the game and lose all the items and such things that he has acquired. Because of this, it appears to Mr. Okamoto that the player doesn't get anything tangible from the game even after putting in so many hours into playing it. However, he does say that each time his character died, he felt more nervous playing it.

He adds that he has also put in money amounting to 2,000 yen, but he finds that it doesn't really add anything valuable, even if he did receive several objects that came from its world.

Mr. Okamoto believes that a points redemption system wherein the player can collect and use the points to obtain useful items solves the problem pertaining to the player not feeling that he's achieved anything in the game.

Of course, there are many more things that Mr. Okamoto says, but I'll need to stop here already.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike