https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260421/20260421PM.md; last accessed: 20260422

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The convesation between Shinichiro Obata and Yosuke Shiokawa (Parte 1)

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-22

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the conversation between Mr. Shinichiro Obata and Mr. Yosuke Shiokawa.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1NK6tE2vpUM; last accessed: 20260421

> 【#3】ゲームが作られてからお客様に届けるまで…！二人のクリエイターが仕事術を語る！:ゲスト 塩川 洋介【#クリエイター偉人伝】

## --

First, Obata-san is the president of BYKING, while Shiokawa-san is the founder of Fahrenheit213. Furthermore, it's said that both studios are well-known for developing 3D action games.

Next, Shiokawa-san shares that Obata-san is a veteran who's worked in the industry longer than him. Obata-san, for his part, recounts the first time when he began working at his own studio, which he himself established. His first project had been pending and, unfortunately, in the end, it was canceled. Obata-san reveals that, actually, the game wasn't interesting, something that he already knew, although when the result came to him, he was still surprised. Given that he had a family, he was also afraid, but he decided to persist and not to fail again. This is why he sincerely thought about the question: How can an interesting game that could also sell be created?

The answer, according to Obata-san's explanation, is to decide the reason why the game could be interesting and do it. He also says that when he has found this reason, he works toward it, and, of course, other people close-by advise him as well. In the end, he believes that what he doesn't need, shouldn't be included in the work. Through this measure, he feels very safe and doesn't anymore need to worry. Further, he believes that this idea can be used not only in 3D action games, but also in any genre including adventure games and those where there's interaction among pretty girls.

With respect to sales, Obata-san admits that he's still learning or challenging himself in terms of communicating to the market about the game. He believes that although a game may be interesting, we have to also look into how it can be delivered to the market, a very important thing, because he wants to be a publisher, not only a developer. 

This is all. Here I end this part of the conversation between Obata-san and Shiokawa-san.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
