https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202607/20260716/20260716PM.md; last accessed: 20260717

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Why the mobile app "popopo" is already ending its service this coming September

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-07-17

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the mobile app "popopo," in which he explains the reason why the service is already ending this coming September.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EJU18TygwOA; last accessed: 20260716

> 配信アプリ『popopo』サービス終了の理由を語る。3ヶ月配信続けて思ったことは｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san begins by saying that the app is ending, because it only spends money without earning anything. Okamoto-san also reveals that he's been sharing videos wherein he showcases the app to viewers every Thursday at 8PM (Japan Time). Still, it seems that the app has only 6,000 or 7,000 daily users in Japan, although there was a time in its six-month lifespan that it was getting a really high rise in the number of its users. However, after trying it or checking it out of curiosity, users began to leave the app.

Okamoto-san believes that it's because the future that the developer plans for it isn't yet clear. While users could use it as though they're talking in a radio program while looking at photos or videos without using the camera, it seems that, in the end, users don't have the chance to make money out of this feature. Furthermore, the app tries to sell suits to its users.

Okamoto-san also points out that users don't need to pay money using any in-app purchase at all, another reason why developers don't have the money to give to users as rewards.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that the expenses to maintain the service surely cost a lot, so much so that the app has to shut down. Despite everything, Okamoto-san is going to continue to use the app until its closure.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
