https://www.asahi.com/articles/ASV7H6KSQV7HUTQP01XM.html?iref=comtop_BreakingNews_list; last accessed: 20260716

> Argentina advances to the FIFA World Cup finals for the second time in a row, winning against England 2-1 in a turn-around victory

> Translator: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> 2026-07-16T05:15 (Updated: 2026-07-16T06:09)

## --

During the World Cup on July 15th (Japan Time: July 16), the 31th day of the tournament, Argentina turned the tide of the battle around, winning the semi-finals against England 2-1 and advancing to the finals for the second time in a row.

While the first half ended with 0-0, England took the first point 10 minutes into the second half when Gordon connected to a cross pass on the right side of the goal.

Argentina retaliated 40 minutes into the game when Fernandez received a pass from Messi and made a middle shot that put the points side by side. During the extra time, LA Martinez made a header into the goal from a cross pass by Messi, thereby turning the tide of the battle in their favor.

England has been aiming to advance to the finals, given that it's been 60 years since England had reached the finals, only it wasn't able to do so during this year's World Cup.

In 1982, a fated battle between the two countries occurred in Falkland. During the FIFA World Cup of 1986, Maradona of Argentina took 2 points via the "Hand of God" and "Gone Passed 5 Defenders," which led to their victory. Argentina won in their navy blue Away Jersey, and is said to have sought the same uniform during this year's semi-finals as well.

Argentina, who's aiming to win two times in a row, will be fighting for the championship, which will be held in New York's suburbs on July 19th (Japan Time: July 20). On July 18th (Japan Time: July 19), England will be facing France to determine who'll be in third place.

## Reference

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE

<br/>
<br/>