https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20250917/20250917PM.md; last accessed: 20250918

> Life Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The seven conditions that women want in a "normal man"

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-09-18

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk last night about the seven conditions that women are looking for in a "normal man."

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FFpkGuCaxYI; last accessed: 20250918

> Do you meet the 7 conditions of a "normal man" that women looking for marriage seek? | Okamoto Yo...

## --

First, he says that the man should have graduated from well-known universities in Japan. That is, at the least, universities like these four: Nihon University, Toyo University, Komazawa University and Senshu University. Alternatively, one that has a better reputation. Okamoto-san explains that it's because women want a man who studies well and has enough skill to enter an established company. He admits, however, that he doesn't pass this condition.

Next, women want the man to have income that amounts to 5 million yen (approx. 2.5 million PHP) or more per year. He explains that it's because when a woman leaves her work or stops her career, the man should be able to bring enough money to the family. Okamoto-san passes this condition.

The third condition is that the man is in a stable job. Okamoto-san also passes this condition.

The fourth is the physical aspect, which means 165 cm or more in height. Okamoto-san doesn't pass this condition.

Next, for the fifth, the man should give the impression of a "Hoshinogen," that is, he can be an actor or a representative of Japan. Okamoto-san doesn't believe that he passes this condition.

The sixth is that the man goes to the gym to exercise. Okamoto-san doesn't pass this condition, even though he has a gym inside his house.

Lastly, the man maintains a sense of cleanliness. Okamoto-san says that this is surely a typical condition, but he doesn't pass it.

Okamoto-san points out that these conditions are the ideals that women want, although even he doesn't pass all of them.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike