https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20250921/20250921PM.md; last accessed: 20250922

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The new Dragon Quest game for smartphones

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-09-22

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the new Dragon Quest game called "Dragon Quest Smash Grow" for smartphones.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KOSLxPrxlbo; last accessed: 20250922

> New Dragon Quest smartphone game announced! (Okamoto is angry!!)

## --

According to Okamoto-san, it's an RPG that has roguelite elements. That is, each time the player defeats a monster, he grows his character in terms of ability, among others. In addition, as a roguelite, each time the player starts the game, the map changes anew. In other words, the player won't know what items would appear when he restarts the labyrinth.

Also, Okamoto-san says that we need to take into consideration that players of Dragon Quest are already approaching old age, even 60 years old. Since they don't play like young people nowadays, the game should have a mechanism to help them. For example, a gacha component or something similar could be added so that older players would be able put in money and enjoy the game.

On the other hand, Okamoto-san points out that aside from using the graphics from Dragon Quest, the game needs to have new features for the younger players who prefer something current, instead of one that is too old.

Okamoto-san also reminds us that a game doesn't make as much money as expected due to rumors like, for example, the problem of insider trading.

Okamoto-san says that if players really loved the game, they'd later also buy the stocks of the studio. This means that the studio should make sure that players would really like the product instead of prioritizing stocks over the quality of the game.

He cites the case of Dragon Quest Walk, which has, in fact, attained 900 million yen from in-app purchases after three or four years. However, after the spread of a rumor saying that within Square Enix all the projects that could make money for the studio had been terminated, the game has turned into a failure.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that the insider trading problem is what has caused this loathsome outcome.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike