https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202510/20251005/20251005.md; last accessed: 20251006

> Business Stories: Amazon founder Jeff Bezos' interview by John Elkann, the chairman of Ferrari and Stellantis and also the CEO of Exor

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-10-06

## Last updated: 2025-10-07T09:35

## --

*** SPOILER ALERT ***

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Amazon founder Jeff Bezos' interview by John Elkann, the chairman of Ferrari and Stellantis as well as the CEO of Exor.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4wTSZDZ_seU; last accessed: 20251006

> LIVE: Jeff Bezos speaks at Italian Tech Week 2025 

## --

First, I want to say that I saw the video in two parts.

I saw the first part the night before yesterday, while the second, last night.

Overall, it seemed to me like a film that made me feel various emotions, though, for the most part, I think that I laughed more than anything else.

After watching the video for up to about 22 minutes, I thought that Jeff had been talking to himself through John's questions. Moreover, I thought that John wanted to know if Jeff was telling the truth. But perhaps, it's because current and prospective investors also wanted to know this information.

Also, I remembered M. Scott Peck's book entitled, "In Heaven as on Earth," in which the world changed for the protagonist and adjusted to whatever he wanted. Given that the interview was done in the form of a Q&A in order to get to know Jeff even better, I was reminded of the "Slum Dog Millionaire," which has a film and a book as well.

In the second part, Jeff explained Amazon's situation during that time in 2000 when many startups were going bankrupt, and the value of their shares in the stock market went down from 113 USD to only 6 USD apiece. However, when Jeff looked into the situation within the company, he found that they continued to improve in their customer count and gross sales, among other metrics, even though they still weren't profitable at that time. 

He cites Benjamin Graham, the great investor, who had said that in the short term, the stock market is a voting machine, while a weighing machine in the long term. This means that Jeff and his team must have the goal of becoming a heavyweight company.

Next, Jeff shared that AI today is like that period of time too, because many entrepreneurs and investors are currently putting in a lot of effort, but, as before, many of them will not be able to survive. Still, he believes that, as in the case of the fiber optic cables, although the companies that put this infrastructure aren't anymore around, the community benefited greatly for it and today, everyone uses it.

Lastly, Jeff revealed his plans of putting computer servers on the moon where there aren't clouds that would cover the sunlight and where enough energy could be generated for the machines to work, as well as of using robots instead of bringing humans to the moon, among other things, because it's more cost-effective doing these things outside planet Earth than here.

Jeff concludes by recommending the Culture series, a series of science fiction books, and says that even though the computer could win against us in chess, he believes that human life certainly still has meaning.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike