https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260405/20260405PM.md; last accessed: 20260406

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The third part in the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious" (Part 3-4) 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-06

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video two weeks ago. It's the third part in the conversation between Okamoto-san and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious." Also, this is now part 3-4.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsRtLU2JpZE; last accessed: 20260405

> 【ナムコに直談判】一高校生がゼビウス攻略本を出版するに至った経緯を聞いてみた｜マトリックス大堀康祐さん対談Part.3

## --

Ohori-san recounts that he was very satisfied to meet people who also loved video games, because, as what he's explained previously, people in middle school didn't like very much video games, nor the arcades. But in the VIDEO COLLECTION magazine, in which the high scores were written, Ohori-san was thinking that if players in all the 47 prefectures of Japan could see the news, the game center could become a space to meet new friends even a rival like in his case with Mr. Naohiko Nakagane in Takadabajo and with whom he wrote the book about Xevious.

Furthermore, Ohori-san recalls that the head of Dempa Shimbun Sha, Ohashi-san, called him up after seeing the book. It was to invite him to create a guide for another game, which was Mappy. So Ohori-san explains that in those days there weren't yet a lot of information available for players, especially because the internet hadn't yet existed as it is today. Thus, it was a dream for Ohori-san to collect the high scores and share information through the publications to everyone. In order to accomplish this goal, he was able to do the job until the third issue of the magazine, though in the end, he wasn't able to turn into reality all that he wanted, which included the idea of visiting other game centers in other prefectures like what was being done in the dojo's.

However, Ohori-san reveals that Ohashi-san had a good relationship with Namco through computer software licenses, among other things. So Ohori-san wanted to present with him the idea of collecting high scores in Sega and Taito's game centers with the help of Namco. As a result, they were able to create a community of players. Not long after, Ohori-san heard that Mr. Akira Nishitani and Mr. Yoshinori Takenaka, both men from Capcom, had a club called Togenkyo, and Ohori-san joined them as its last member. Ohori-san explains that during that time, they already knew about Ohori-san, though not yet very well. Further, Ohori-san focused more on writing the book and other publications, so he didn't have a lot of time to join Nishitani-san and Takenaka-san's activities.

This is all. I end here this part of the conversation between Okamoto-san and Ohori-san.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
