https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202511/20251102/20251102PM.md; last accessed: 20251103

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The new paid channel from comedian Hitoshi "Matchan" Matsumoto called DOWNTOWN+

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-11-03

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the return of Mr. Hitoshi "Matchan" Matsumoto, a Japanese comedian, who has launched a new paid channel called DOWNTOWN+.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o0aZ1Wphadk; last accessed: 20251103

> いよいよ配信開始「ダウンタウン＋(プラス)」の内容が気になりすぎる件｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

The service just started on November 1st, and for 1,100 yen each month (or 11,000 yen each year), subscribers could listen to their content on TV, PC or mobile devices.

Okamoto-san shares with us his thoughts on this announcement.

First, Okamoto-san admits that he doesn't anymore know what happened with respect to a prior issue related to Mr. Matchan, but he says that he isn't worried about it, because he believes that there's no reason why Mr. Matchan, a talented person, would not return to television.

Moreover, Okamoto-san says that Mr. Matchan's well-known skill is his ability to make adlibs. It's very amusing, and Okamoto-san says that most likely this adlib is really almost not adlib at all. It's a performance that Mr. Matchan can achieve through a lot of practice.

Also, according to Okamoto-san, Mr. Matchan is very famous for creating "the infrastructure" or the system to produce amusing programs. This is why his workers, for their part, work hard to do the best that is possible.

With respect to Mr. Matchan's new service, Okamoto-san says that it's too expensive at 1,000 yen per month. He explains that he wonders if there'll be new programs in the channel, or will it only use old programs. Furthermore, he points out that viewers would begin to ask if these programs are on YouTube as well. Okamoto-san emphasizes that the advantage of Matchan's channel is that his videos can only be viewed there. 

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike