https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202606/20260626/20260626PM.md; last accessed: 20260627

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The price of an unopened cartridge of "Super Mario Bros." has achieved a new record of 3 million USD (480 million yen)

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-06-27

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's announcement that the price of an unopened cartridge of "Super Mario Bros." has achieved a new record of 3 million USD (480 million yen).

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JVOBP-8EvlI; last accessed: 20260626

> 未開封『スーパーマリオブラザーズ』がビデオゲーム史上過去最高額300万ドル(4.8億)で落札！レトロゲームの価値上がりすぎやんな？！

## --

Okamoto-san explains that years ago, the price was 73 million yen. Also, another Nintendo game, which is "The Legend of Zelda," had a price tag of a little over 90 million yen. Thus, there's been a "Retro Boom" in Japan very recently, such that the gold cartdige of "Kinnikuman," a not-for-sale game, sells for 600,000 yen at the auction. Furthermore, Okamoto-san clarifies that this price depends on the foreign exchange of the yen and the US dollar (USD), so when the yen becomes cheaper, the price in dollars goes up higher. 

Next, Okamoto-san reveals that he's sold several cartridges when he no longer had a place for them at the house. In addition, he recounts that they weren't new anymore, because he actually played them. However, until now, he keeps some of them, including the Famicom Mini, which have been signed by Mr. Shigeru Miyamoto, Mr. Akira Sakuma and Mr. Yuji Horii, because he says that he can never sell them.

Okamoto-san recalls that it was at the flee market in the Oi Horse Racing Stadium where he had sold the box of cartridges. He also explains that there were several types of auction such as for things that weren't for sale or for things that have never been opened.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that the video game industry has now become a lot more welcoming than it was before when he entered it and it wasn't yet called an industry. In fact, the impression that game centers had during that time was like a drama story on TV in which a daughter leaves home without her parents' permission and comes to a game center where she gets involved with bad men. However, thanks to the release of the Famicom, newbies as well as the general public were able to enjoy video games such as "Super Mario Bros.," which now sells for 500 million yen at the auction.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
