https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260326/20260326PM.md; last accessed: 20260327

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The crisis that curry restaurants are facing due to changes in the rules concerning foreign workers in Japan

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-27

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture on the crisis that curry restaurants are facing due to changes in the rules concerning foreign workers in Japan.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EkhoHH4uaBk; last accessed: 20260326

> 【インドカレー屋の存続危機】風が吹けば桶屋が儲かる｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san explains that in 2000, there occurred the Y2K bug, which was reported to have been caused by an error in the way computers computed dates, such that the Japanese thought that since Indians were considered to be geniuses in mathematics, Japanese companies ought to employ many workers from India in order to improve their businesses.

Likewise, restaurants that offered food from India as well as Nepal increased in Japan. These were mainly for the workers from India and then Nepal, among others.

However, a Japanese rule that allowed foreign workers to obtain a manager visa is currently being changed, so that the visa would now cost 30 million yen instead of only 5 million yen.

Okamoto-san believes that because of this, workers from India or Nepal can no longer come to Japan to work, and in their stead, the Chinese who have money are the ones who get to come to Japan. 

Of course, Okamoto-san agrees that skilled workers are welcome to Japan, though he thinks that his favorite restaurants from India-Nepal would suffer problems due to this change.

This is all. Okamoto-san clearly said more, but I think that these are the key points.

Before ending, as a response to Okamoto-san, I'd like to comment that we should also take care against the changes in the food ingredients due to the tariffs as well as the increase in oil prices. I remember finding out recently, for example, that food like potatoes made my hair white or "Andok's" chicken made me burp like Coca-Cola. However, as always, let's expect new changes to come later.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike