https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260218PM.md; last accessed: 20260219

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The way to invest in the stock market in order to attain FIRE (Financial Independence, Retire Early) more quickly

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-19

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's newest lecture about FIRE (Financial Independence, Retire Early).

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Quz_784glI; last accessed: 20260218

> 【逆算式のFIRE】誰でも目標に到達できるFIREの考え方｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

This time around, Okamoto-san points out that there's actually a way to invest in the stock market in order to attain FIRE more quickly. He reveals that he's attained it, and so now receives enough passive income to live without having to work. Also, when he asks Ms. Tapi how much money she needs to live life, she answers that 2 million up to 3 million yen each year would be enough, and shares that she wants to continue to maintain her relationship with the community by working. Okamoto-san clarifies that the amount that Tapi-san has said is enough for her, because she already has a house, and Okamoto-san agrees with her about continuing to work, even if she's attained FIRE.

Next, Okamoto-san says that given that there's a 20% tax given to the government when an investor sells his shares for cash, and also a 3% inflation, among other things, in order to produce earnings of 2 million yen, 50 million yen would be necessary. So, although the first goal is 50 million yen, the next one should be 100 million yen.

Okamoto-san explains that in the US S&P, for example, within 10 years, the earnings for selling various shares go up 2.2 times, so an amount of 50 million yen will result to 110 million yen in 10 years.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that although the value of shares in the stock market goes down, it will always go up. Therefore, we should look at it in the long term, and when the value has gone down, we should have the courage to invest more. Further, when it has gone up enough, he recommends selling half of our shares to obtain cash. But above all, the two things that we should know is how much money we'd need to live life and how much we'd need to invest each month in order to achieve our goals.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike