https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260319PM.md; last accessed: 20260320

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The YouTube Live Video for March 19, 2026

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-20

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you the most recent YouTube Live Video of Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto, Ms. Tapi, and a new colleague of theirs, Ms. Tanu.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vMiA1aDu7s; last accessed: 20260319

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ(26年3月19日)

## --

This time around, Okamoto-san shares with us that he's gone back to Malaysia. Further, he and Ms. Tapi show us a new app called Popopo in which Okamoto-san has a virtual character, which is a takoyaki (a very popular Japanese food in Osaka), while Ms. Tapi has a woman with a hoodie jacket. Okamoto-san explains that the app doesn't yet use the camera, and can be downloaded for free.

Further, Okamoto-san thinks that the expenses for the server to provide this app probably costs 30,000 yen per month. At this point, Ms. Tapi wonders how the app makes money. So Okamoto-san reveals that the app has an in-app feature to receive payments, even though Okamoto-san hasn't put any payments into it yet.

Next, Okamoto-san admits that he underwent a medical exam with things like the CT Scan, and says that something was found, so that he must now take care of his health from hereon.

Okamoto-san also introduces to us Ms. Tanu (from the Tanuki animal, which can be encountered in many stories from Japan), who is from Ainancho, Okamoto-san's province, and is currently 24 years old. This morning, she went with Okamoto-san and other colleagues to take a walk, a daily exercise of Okamoto-san. Moreover, Okamoto-san and she were playing Monster Hunter Now, which is already Ms. Tanu's favorite game. Furthermore, Okamoto-san reveals that Ms. Tanu has been helping him make the videos, putting subtitles and other things. Ms. Tapi, for her part, reveals that she's met Ms. Tanu once last year.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that Ms. Tanu is going to accompany him more in his videos, so we'll be able to get to know her better then.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike
