https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KBx5fVIFC6E

> ゲーム開発受託会社ではどんな接待をしていたの？｜岡本吉起塾Ch

Dear friends,

Last night, Mr. OKAMOTO, Yoshiki was sharing about the time when he was the president of Game Republic, the company he, himself, founded. Also, while we was speaking, we could see a number of the people whom we've seen before making an appearance in his video. This means that we can focus on his lecture, without minding the people going about doing certain things at the background, or we can combine these two and have a much deeper degree of content.

Mr. OKAMOTO says that when he was the president of Game Republic, he had over 300 people at the company, and he was struggling with the problem of money. However, he couldn't admit this fact to his clients, so that he had to come up with ways to somehow solve it. Mr. OKAMOTO explained that if his clients found out that his company didn't have money, nobody would want to work with them on any project. Thus, whenever they'd have clients who'd be coming to visit the company, he'd call members of his household and tell them to prepare food for the visitors. It was in this way that he was able to reduce their expenses.

Next, in the video, we can also see that the man behind Mr. OKAMOTO is someone whom we can recognize. Moreover, it seems that he was surprised to find Mr. OKAMOTO sitting in the same place as last time just like he himself was about to do. We know that through another video of Mr. OKAMOTO, this same man is waiting for his spouse who'll be arriving shortly. Furthermore, as with last time, there's also the guard who's wearing a yellow garment. And the last, which is new, shows a young girl in a swimsuit walking toward the front. In another channel, we'd think that her face and such parts of her body would be covered so that her identity would not be revealed, but actually even in the news on TV, at times we'd find that such method isn't done at all.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
