https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251227/20251227PM.md; last accessed: 20251228

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Bank of Japan is raising interest rates to 0.75%

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-27

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's news that the Bank of Japan is raising the interest on money that's been saved in the bank or has been borrowed from the bank to 0.75%, something that has never happened in 30 years.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wt2UfALG-04; last accessed: 20251227

> 30年ぶり高水準！日銀が政策金利0.75％に引き上げを行うことについて語ります｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san says that he's afraid of this decision. He explains that when the interest rises, more people would want to save or put money into the bank, because they'd make more money out of this. However, as a consequence of this, taxes on the sale of shares would go up.

Furthermore, he says that decades ago when the Japanese economy had been in a bubble, putting money in the bank didn't give people much in terms of interest. On the other hand, borrowing money from the bank also didn't give people so high an interest rate. Because of this, Japanese people were able to borrow money in order to buy a house that they'd need to pay in 30 years or more.

This time, Okamoto-san advises a person, who's thinking about buying a house or an apartment room, to choose the fixed interest rate option. Given that the Japanese law requires owners to continuously pay whether or not there are occupants or not, while the costs of maintaining the apartment, such as fixing the roof or repainting it, continue to rise, a person shouldn't have to pay so much with a fixed interest rate.

Okamoto-san adds that it's still better not to buy a house, but if it's really necessary, he advises paying in cash. If the person should need to borrow money from the bank, he advises using the said fixed interest rate option.

Next, with respect to the elderly people, who may be worried that the bank wouldn't give them money, Okamoto-san assures people that since more housing or units even in the downtown area are becoming vacant, their prices are going down as well. Moreover, if the owner doesn't want to sell or rent out, Okamoto-san explains that this owner should still continue to pay government taxes as well as other expenses. Therefore, he'll eventually want to sell or rent out in order to recover his money.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike