https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260415/20260415PM.md; last accessed: 20260416

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The fourth part in the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious" (Part 4-4) 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-16

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video two weeks ago. It's the fourth part in the conversation between Okamoto-san and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious." Also, this is now part 4-4.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DHDUFkEFE4c; last accessed: 20260416

> 【文化保存】日本のゲーム文化を後世に残すために今やれることは｜マトリックス大堀康祐さん対談Part.4

## --

Okamoto-san asks Ohori-san if he collects the motherboards of the past, and he answers that he does it with his friends and he thinks that Okamoto-san has the power to call on sponsors to put up a video game museum. Ohori-san emphasizes the importance of having a box or space for old video games in order to preserve them, along with video game culture.

Okamoto-san shares an idea of using an abandoned school for this museum, although he admits that the cost to maintain it, he thinks, is too much. It'll include payments for electricity, lawn-mowing and protection against water on the roof. Furthermore, when the motherboards break down, someone who could fix them would be needed. 

Ohori-san replies that it's better to do it with the Japanese government. Okamoto-san responds positively, particularly, with regard to money. In addition, Okamoto-san points out that he's been talking about his province in Ehime prefecture, but an abandoned school in central Tokyo such as Shinjuku, he thinks, will be fantastic. However, if Shinjuku isn't possible, even a place that has a provincial feel to it like Hachioji, where Ohori-san grew up, may be suitable. Ohori-san responds that it's especially because many foreigners come to Takao-yama.

Okamoto-san reiterates that it could be a holy place like the Mecca, explaining that if people don't do it now, they'll later regret it. Also, it isn't necessary that all the games are from Japan. For example, there's a room for pinball games. Visitors buy tickets to enter, and there are games that they could play. Further, Okamoto-san says that he'd be very happy if there's someone who'd record videos that show that people play these games. So there's a room for the Famicom, another for the Megadrive, and even a shelf for several things related to video games. Okamoto-san thinks that there will surely be a person who will want to donate after seeing these parts of the museum.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that, the same with Ohori-san, he wants to preserve video game culture, and also to create a space for developers where they could exchange things related to video game culture as well as technology.

This is all. 

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
