https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202607/20260718/20260718PM.md; last accessed: 20260719

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Game, "Meccha Camereon," in the Context of Developing Indie Games

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-07-19

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the game, "Meccha Camereon," in the context of developing indie games.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4lTieFi79ig; last accessed: 20260718

> めっちゃカメレオン売上1000万本突破！インディーゲーム開発、夢ある一方で厳しい現実をお伝えします。

## --

First, Okamoto-san reiterates that the game "Meccha Camereon" has achieved great success despite the current situation of developing indie games, wherein it's become rather difficult  for developers to make money. However, if there are actually indie games like "Meccha Camereon," which itself has sold more than 8,000 copies and has made over 100 million dollars in sales, it also means that there's really a chance to achieve success in this industry.

Next, Okamoto-san explains the reason why it's difficult to make money even after launching an indie game. According to Okamoto-san, of course, there's also the part about marketing, promotion, among other words that mean this same concept of presenting the game to players. But in this talk, he clarifies that he focuses more on the question: What is your goal of creating a game? Thus, it's a question that is related to the developer's ambition.

Okamoto-san shares with us that while it may be that a developer initially only wants to try to create and launch a game, in the end, a video game creator would want other people to be able to play and enjoy his creation as well. Here he asks us: What is the one game that you want to play today? This question isn't related to the cost of developing the title at all, and it doesn't matter if it had cost 100 million yen to develop or not.

Okamoto-san also gives the example of "Grand Theft Auto [5]," which a person may want to play today. Still, the truth is that it's a game from 13 years ago, meaning that the person didn't play it when the game was released, and waited 13 years to play it.

Okamoto-san further says that the price of the game influences what people play. Therefore, a game that costs 5 dollars may be enough for a gamer, but if it's more than this amount, he wouldn't anymore go and play it.

Okamoto-san also reiterates the idea that if the game is very interesting to hear, view, play, and repeat, it'll surely achieve success. In addition, Okamoto-san emphasizes that a new game that's never been released before could fit well in this idea. Okamoto-san also points out that nowadays announcements on social media help people a lot in this regard. Specifically, a game that Okamoto-san gives as example is "Meccha Camereon," which costs only about 800 yen.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that, in fact, there are examples of games that have achieved success, even though the situation particularly for indie game developers is very challenging at the moment. Moreover, Okamoto-san stresses that he himself wants to launch a successful indie game before his retirement, so he's working hard to carry out this goal.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
