https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202606/20260608/20260608PM.md; last accessed: 20260609

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The concept of the Bucket List as well as Ms. Tanu's top three wishes before she dies

> Redactor: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-06-09

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture with Ms. Tanu about the concept of a Bucket List as well as Ms. Tanu's top three wishes before she dies in her list.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t3D_yYgFy3I; last accessed: 20260608

> 【バケットリスト】生きているうちに達成したいTOP３をアシスタント（たぬちゃん）と考える｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san explains that the word "Bucket" means a pail, which a person kicks when he's abondoned a dream or desire, such that as long as he continues to persevere, there's the possibility that a day may come when he'd be able to fulfill these desires in his list.

Next, Tanu-san shares with us his top three desires: One is to wear nice clothing. Second is to learn how to invest in order to not experience financial problems in the future. And the last is to travel the world.

Okamoto-san then points out that he wants to teach people the way to invest, and, in addition, he says that he himself wants to fulfill Ms. Tanu's third wish as well about traveling the world. However, he recounts that this last wish will cost a lot of money at 60 million yen for three months and a half for each traveler in the cruise. Further, the price will include the best internet connection possible using wifi, contrary to the cheapest room, in which the traveler cannot access the internet at all. In addition, Okamoto-san says that this wifi uses a satellite like what Mr. Elon Musk does in his company [SpaceX].

Finally, Okamoto-san reveals that he continues to take walks with Ms. Tanu in the morning. They wake up at six in the morning and do this exercise for around one hour. Okamoto-san's goal is to bring down his current weight from 75 kg to 69.9 kg, and reveals that he regulates his weight by eating food such as ranshu ramen, chahan (fried rice) and gyoza.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
