https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260309PM.md; last accessed: 20260310

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: NetEase Games is ending its financial support to Nagoshi Studio

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-10

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video about the news that NetEase Games (NetEase) will be ending its financial support to Nagoshi Studio.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ArPSVWk5YhA; last accessed: 20260309

> 【中国企業撤退へ】名越スタジオ、ネットイースからの資金提供が停止という報道についてお話しします【龍が如く】

## --

First, Okamoto-san explains that Nagoshi Studio was founded by Mr. Toshihiro Nagoshi, a game creator who had been with Sega prior to his departure. Further, two big companies, NetEase and Tencent, had invited Nagoshi-san to come to their company. In the end, Nagoshi-san chose NetEase. Also, Mr. Ma Dong Seok, a South Korean actor, who has done several roles related to the police as well as gangsters, has joined Nagoshi-san's team in order to create a video game that was just announced in December of the previous year.

However, only three months later, there's been a rumor circulating saying that NetEase has told Nagoshi-san that they will pay for the development of the video game only until May of this year.

Further, Okamoto-san reveals that NetEase has been shrinking its foreign studios, and given that Nagoshi-san's team has been developing the game for 4 or 5 years with a budget of 8 billion yen, NetEase wants Nagoshi Studio to finish the project until the end.

However, Okamoto-san thinks that 8 billion yen might not be enough to complete this game, like in the case of many large games in the industry. So, perhaps, 10 billion to 15 billion might be better.

If Nagoshi Studio has been working on the project for 4 years, it still hasn't fully used up its 8 billion yen funding, maybe, says Okamoto-san, only 7 billion until this March.

For this reason, Okamoto-san points out that there are two paths that Nagoshi Studio could take: one is to find another financier, and the second is to find a financier in order to create a completely new title.

Also, after finding a financier, there will be several conditions that would arise, for example, how many sales and how much income the title should achieve, in addition to returning the 8 billion yen.

Next, Okamoto-san explains that NetEase has decided to strengthen the studio's brand as one from China, and which offers products for the Chinese market.

In addition, Okamoto-san points out that Nagoshi Studio has three risks. One is that it has to pay over 7 billion yen. Second is that the sales of its product will go to NetEase. Third is that Sega could sue it.

Finally, Okamoto-san analyzes that there are many big studios like Sony, Nintendo, Bandai Namco that Nagoshi Studio could ask for funding, but the one that is most recommended by Okamoto-san is Sega, especially in order to resolve the third risk.

Before ending, in response to Okamoto-san's invitation to write our opinions, I'd like to say that based on the flow of Okamoto-san's story, it seems that the advice to ask for Sega's help has been what the heads at Nagoshi Studio and NetEase have planned since the beginning, although perhaps it wasn't too explicit to everyone until now.

This is all. 

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike
