https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260202PM.md; last accessed: 20260202

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Part Three of the Talk with Keiji Inafune, the Creator of Megaman, about Their Life after Leaving Capcom

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-02

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the third part in the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Keiji Inafune, the creator of Megaman.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gZWdJ61tc0U; last accessed: 20260201

> カプコンから独立後に上手くいかなかった2人が改めて「ゲーム会社の経営」の難しさを語る【稲船敬二さん特別対談③】

## --

This time around, the main topic is about their experiences after leaving Capcom.

Okamoto-san asks Inafune-san the first thing that he did, and he responds that he first established "comcept," with the letter "m" instead of "n."

However, while Inafune-san had worked at Capcom for 20 years, and after trying out various things, in the end, he couldn't achieve success. He explains that as a creator he focused on the front side of things or what can be seen, for example, his prior achievements when he was still at Capcom. Because of this, Inafune-san admits that the aspects related to management that Capcom had done well couldn't be done as well at his studio.

Inafune-san tries to explain this with an example in that soldiers also need the rest who work behind the scenes of the campaign. Okamoto-san mentions the name of Mitsunari Ishida as a historical figure who worked at behind the scenes.

Okamoto-san also recounts his case with Game Republic in which he had 320 employees. He explains that when he was at Capcom he was able to get employees whom he wanted for some role, and this was very convenient for him. However, at his own studio, although there was a position available, he didn't have the necessary employee for this role.

Further, Okamoto-san says that the employees at Game Republic couldn't identify well who were the leaders, such that the battle for authority started within the studio. Okamoto-san regrets that if he himself could point out the specific person to be the leader maybe he wouldn't have had this problem.

He also explains that his employees divided themselves into groups, and since some were from Square, Taito, Sega or Namco, they would tell Okamoto-san the way used at those studio where they had worked before. But Okamoto-san felt that this shouldn't be the case, because they had already transferred to Game Republic.

Next, Okamoto-san reveals that all the work that they received were from only one studio, so that like a basket that is broken and has a hole, the eggs fell. The result of which is Okamoto-san's debt of 1.7 billion yen.

Moreover, Okamoto-san couldn't convince his employees to lower their salaries so they left the studio. Okamoto-san tried to put the employees below those who had left Game Republic in the vacant positions, but he still needed to pay their salaries each month, and he was worried how he could get this done.

Inafune-san responds that aside from not be able to pay wages, there also the situation wherein the wages don't anymore go up, meaning that the studio isn't doing well, and the employees would notice this and would thereby leave.

Okamoto-san points out that although his best employees were able to stay put, their work increased due to the departure for the rest.

Furthermore, Inafune-san and Okamoto-san both agree that people, who experience hardships together, become closer.

Inafune-san cites Okamoto-san's favorite book, Sangokushi (The Three Kingdoms) wherein when Cao Cao was already fleeing, only the people who had trsuted the leader remained in the battlefield.

This is all. Their conversation also has the story about Street Fighter IV according to Inafune-san, but I should already stop here, and it's a story for another time.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike