https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251225/20251225PM.md; last accessed: 20251226

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Why Chinese Tourists Have Low Civility (Last Part)

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-26

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the second and last part of Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about his thoughts on the reason why tourists from China seem to have a low level of civility.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KGi6JmPJ3Us; last accessed: 20251225

> 中国人観光客“渡航自粛”で明るみになった『中国人の民度』の低さを語る｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

As I've written in the previous part of his talk, Okamoto-san introduced Mr. Deng Xiaoping, who was a politician that also didn't like the actual situation during those days wherein bad things like, for instance, briberies were rampant.

Next, Okamoto-san continues that, as a result, China strived very hard to teach the population about Confucianism. Moreover, people, who didn't learn it because they were too poor, became bad. Furthermore, they received a type of education that was anti-Japanese. On the other hand, people, who were rich, were able to learn Confucianism and received an education that was not necessarily anti-Japanese.
 
So the gap between the rich and the poor became wider.

Also, Okamoto-san gives the example of the incident called "The Massacre of Nanking," which, he believes, isn't true. However, China insists that it's something that, in fact, happened during the war between China and Japan from December 1937 to March of the following year.

Although there were educated people who brought photos that showed that this event didn't really happen, nobody around the poor Chinese told them so. Thus, the said gap between the rich and the poor became even wider than before.

However, the Chinese do recognize Japan's progress, even though they may say that they don't like Japan. They also buy products from Japan for their high quality, and like to visit Japan.

Lastly, Okamoto-san talks about Sesame Credit, a service from the Alibaba group, which includes Jack Ma, that offers a system that awards points based on the credibility of each user when he uses their services such as Alipay. In addition, these points can be used to receive discounts or privileged treatment. These points are also assessed when a person passes a job application. Therefore, as Okamoto-san explains, it's also a way to raise the Chinese people's level of civility.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike