https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260301PM.md; last accessed: 20260302

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The second part in the chat between Yoshiki Okamoto and NishiP about arcade games

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-02

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you the second part of the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Yasuhiro "NishiP" Nishiyama about arcade games.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bwy0aT18mRM; last accessed: 20260301

> 【京橋のザンギエフ使い】あの頃調整しきれなかったスト２「ハメ技」戦法について開発者はどう思ってた？｜スゴロックス西山泰弘さんと対談Part.2

## --

First, Okamoto-san says that if the income that came to the arcades wasn't very high, there wouldn't be a place "in front of the train station." Further, it would mean that these games weren't popular. So Okamoto-san and his team worked hard to sell them.

Nishiyama-san, for his part, recalls that the specs of home consoles were able to achieve those of the arcades very quickly, so it appears to him that developers struggled during that time, a generation after Okamoto-san's.

Next, Okamoto-san points out that after "Space Invader" was launched in the arcades, the 100 yen price to play was kept until the 90s. This is why developers struggled some more, especially because the expenses for commodities, development, motherboard, rent, electricity and human resources all went up.

Okamoto-san explains the solution that they came up with through "Final Fight" and "Street Fighter II." In the former, a player could play for 3 minutes with 100 yen, and since another player could also play with him, they could play for 3 minutes at 200 yen. So based on Okamoto-san's computation, a player paid 100 yen, but only played 1.5 minutes. However, "Final Fight" had a weakness. That is, each time it's played, the player could last longer.

Therefore, Okamoto-san and his team launched the next game, Street Fighter II, which was a fighting game, wherein a player fought another, each paying 100 yen. In addition, the weaker player lost his money more quickly. So, in 3 minutes, two players paid 200 yen in total. According to Okamoto-san's explanation, through this method, the game center was able to continue to make money. However, Okamoto-san revealed that they encountered a problem called "hame waza," which is an error in the game's design and was used by some players in order to win against another easily.

Furthermore, Okamoto-san says that while there were many of these hame waza, what he found out was that even if the game center didn't prohibit their use, Japanese players themselves created a culture so that if it was used, the player accepted to receive damage before they began their next fight.

Okamoto-san explains that, actually, eliminating the hame waza was the work of the developers, and when a game had too many, it received many updates as well. Okamoto-san points out that fighting games, in particular, weren't like card games, because updating the balance of the game wasn't a simple task of changing 1 to 2 or 2 to 1, but one that multiplied many times over.

Nishiyama-san recounts that finding these bugs or tricks like the "Konami Command" appeared to be very interesting for players, especially during the era without yet the internet. In Sega's case, the best players helped the studio find them with games like "Virtua Fighter" and "Sangokushi Taisen," particularly the sequels.

Okamoto-san also recalls a player who used the Zangief character to win 80 times consecutively in a location test at Kyobashi. Okamoto-san had sent five of his strongest employees to compete with him, but they called him up on the phone saying that they couldn't win against this player. Okamoto explains that he had used the "screw pile driver," an attack that at that time had dealt a lot of damage. So afterward, Zangief was updated to be always weaker.

Okamoto-san continues to explain that this is a result of developing the game by starting with pressing the button multiple times, and then, charging for a second to execute an action, and finally, entering commands that were faster by a second.

Nishiyama-san responds that there's always a player who would show this type of outcome that is very extraordinary. He gives the example when they published data of the "Initial D" game, and found that after a week, a player had beaten the fastest time by 3 seconds.

This is all. As always, there are many more things to say, but I'll stop here.

Thank you, and until soon!

Regards,

Mike