https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260130/20260130AM.md; last accessed: 20260130

> Prof. Joi Ito and Team's General Meeting (2026-01-30): Tokyu Fudosan's use of NFT's in their real estate businesses

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-30

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Prof. Joi Ito and team's general meeting this morning about the recent developments in Web3 technology and the people behind them.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7AOflTmBlKE; last accessed: 20260130

> 【最新web3情報LIVE】東急不動産が始める RWA(リアルワールドアセット)の新プロジェクトとは？｜weekly gm｜2026年1月30日 

## --

Comugi-san began with his usual news reports (no available link yet), where we learn that the infrastructure necessary to run Web3 technology has been advancing very quickly and in a way that people are becoming accustomed to using it. Comugi-san also highlights the fact that companies like Sony in Japan are investing money into the Ethereum cryptocurrency to make this a reality. 

As for today's presentation, Mr. Hiroki Shirokura of Tokyu Fudosan shares the projects that they've done involving NFT, a Web3 technology, as applied in their real estate businesses. He mentions that aside from developing condominiums, they also provide services that include hotels, resorts and homes for the aged.

More specifically, he says that in 2022, their team sold NFT's to visitors of their ski resort in Hokkaido, so that they could ride the lift much more quickly. At the time, the NFT was getting a lot of attention from media, which is why this initiative proved to be a lot more successful than they imagined. 

In 2024, they again used NFT technology to allow the resale of golf tickets at their golf course. He reveals that customers tended to cancel their golf ticket reservations more frequently whenever it rained.

Next, he explains that a key use of NFT that their team has found challenging to implement, but believes would accelerate its mass adoption is the NFT wallet, which also uses Web3 infrastructure in order to make payments in contexts like world expos and similar types of events.

Afterward, he shares another project that they started in 2023 called Tokyu Stay, which is a web service to handle hotel reservations. He adds that while hotels usually allow customers to cancel their reservations, they've opted to let customers resell them through the website instead. Other customers can then reserve the rooms tagged for resale in Tokyu Stay at a much cheaper price.

Shirokura-san explains that this initiative began from the perspective of the hotel. He reveals that their data show that 80% of hotel reservations are done by Online Travel Agents (OTA), who could make reservations even before they complete their payments to the hotel.

Because of this, it becomes an issue for the hotel if a customer had reserved on February 1st for a room on October 1st through the OTA, but eventually decides to cancel it.

Shirokura-san says that if the hotel has 100 rooms and given 31 days in a month, approximately 2,700 rooms would be in-use or operational. However, if 50% of its customers were to cancel their reservations, it would be a huge loss for the hotel.

Shirokura-san further explains that reservations done earlier are cheaper, while those made later are more expensive. 

Next, he says that there are currently about 300,000 users of the NFT wallet. They can take advantage of their hotel business' resale feature through this wallet, although, for the most part, customers use it to get hold of the NFT, which is in the form of a QR code, to indicate that they've made a room reservation. They then show this NFT when they come during during their room's reservation date. 

This is all. While there are many more things that Comugi-san, Shirokura-san and Ms. Mariko Nishimura had said during the general meeting, I should already stop here.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike