https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260130/20260130PM.md; last accessed: 20260131

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: A Talk with Keiji Inafune, the Creator of Mega Man

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-31

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's conversation with Mr. Keiji Inafune, the creator of Mega Man.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dpmMFwPYwYk; last accessed: 20260130

> 「ロックマン」の生みの親である稲船敬二さんがついに岡本吉起YouTubeにやってきた！カプコン時代のお話を深掘りします【稲船敬二さん特別対談①】

## --

First, Okamoto-san and Inafune-san reveal that they haven't met in 20 years. Okamoto-san recalls that he was around 42 years old the last time he met with Inafune-san, who was 38 years old.

Next, Okamoto-san asks Inafune-san the reason why he left Capcom.

Inafune-san responds that he has a reason that can be thought of as cool. He says that he left Capcom, because the studio was already secure, so Inafune-san had no more challenges to overcome.

He also says that he's observed that the studio does well in the market when it's in a precarious situation. Further, Inafune-san felt that only maintaining existing franchises instead of creating something new didn't appeal to him, because he's a creator who wants to launch new products.

He also points out that during that time he continued to create new games while launching the next games in the Mega Man series. But the time came when this was not anymore allowed.

Okamoto-san also shares Mr. Tokuro Fujiwara's response. He says that first Fujiwara-san told him that whenever he revealed to anyone that he wanted to leave Capcom, this person would leave earlier than him. Next, Okamoto-san reveals that actually Fujiwara-san's reasoning is approximately the same as his.

Okamoto-san relates that Mr. Kenzo Tsujimoto, Capcom's President, had told Fujiwara-san that only the arcade games that could sell well should be ported to consoles.

Fujiwara-san had gone to consult with his colleagues at Capcom about this direction of the studio, but, in the end, he couldn't accept it, and left Capcom.

It seemed to Okamoto-san that Tsujimoto-san wanted everyone to leave the studio. Inafune-san responds that the management's mind can be understood.

Afterward, Okamoto-san points out that these days if they were to ask the youngest child in a group which game he plays, his answer would be Monster Hunter. But the truth is that it's a game for 40-year-olds. And Mega Man is for 50-year-olds. Therefore, Capcom should launch a game that could capture the market of 10-year-olds.

Inafune-san responds that what he thinks is the core of Capcom is that there's a path to winning, or the player can come to the realization that he could win. And Inafune-san believes that this idea should be communicated well to children.

Finally, Inafune-san says that given that he's been trained by Capcom to do what he had done, it's frustrating for him that he should think about something else. Of course, everyone wants to do what he wants, but as what Okamoto-san has concluded, we also want everyone to be able to enjoy our creations.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike