https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260108/20260108PM.md; last accessed: 20260109

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Producer Noritaka Funamizu's Life after Leaving Capcom

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-09

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the first part of the talk four years ago between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Noritaka Funamizu about the latter's life after leaving Capcom.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vl8Lnvm5JN0; last accessed: 20260108

> 【コラボ】「スト2」開発メンバーがカプコンを退社してからの波乱万丈な人生のお話を聞きました(船水紀孝さん対談)

## --

Funamizu-san reveals that he had worked at Capcom for 17 or 18 years. After another 18 years, he's again with Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto to make this video.

Of course, since we want to know the things that Funamizu-san has done before arriving at this point in his life, he shares with us that actually he's participated in several projects including the establishment of some studios after he left Capcom. 

First, he says that for half a year, he had gone out for drinks with famous creators from the video games industry such as Mr. Masahiro Sakurai of Kirby and Smash Bros. as well as Mr. Yasumi Matsuno of the Ogre Battle and Ivalice series in Osaka City, among others.

Afterward, Funamizu-san was able to find jobs that included those with Sega where he had worked with his younger colleagues from Capcom. Moreover, he had worked with Matsuno-san of Square Enix himself as a game tester, although the project ended while they were doing the testing.

Still, Funamizu-san went out to meet and drink with Matsuno-san in Tokyo. He says that they always ended up talking about video games.

Later on, Funamizu-san found a job at Sony Computer Entertainment (SCE). It was to create an original title for the PSP, Sony's portable console. He also worked on the creation of a game that used the Motion Controller for the PS3, although as before there were changes in Sony's management when he was doing the tests, and these projects were ended, unfortunately. 

This is all. I end the first part of the talk here. 

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike