https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260312PM.md; last accessed: 20260313

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: A Conversation with Kosuke Ohori, the Author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious"

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-13

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's conversation with Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious."

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0jy67P6eSjE; last accessed: 20260312

> 【対談】伝説のゲーム同人誌『ゼビウス1000万点の解法』作者とゼビウスをアツく語る｜マトリックス大堀康祐さん対談Part.1

## --

First, Okamoto-san introduces Ohori-san, who was a subordinate of his a long time ago and also the person who actually wrote the strategy guide for Bandai Namco (at the time, Namco)'s game, Xevious, which, Okamoto-san says, was an incredible achievement.

Ohori-san then greets all the viewers of Okamoto-san and says that he's currently with the company, Matrix.

Next, Okamoto-san recounts that when he had been creating shooting games like, for instance, Time Pilot, there were only four colors that could be used. Furthermore, one of these was for transparent. So when Xevious was released, the game fascinated Okamoto-san very much for its graphics.

Ohori-san recalls that during that time, only games similar to those for the Famicom were in the arcades, so Xevious was very fascinating, because it appeared that it was already a game for the Super Famicom.

But if this game were only beautiful, it shouldn't have been played as much. However, Okamoto-san reveals that he had played it every day. Although he wasn't very skillful in playing it, he liked it a lot. Also, because he couldn't improve in this game, the day came when he heard that there was a book, which was called "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious."

Okamoto-san admits that the truth was that he couldn't achieve 1 million points. He thinks that he could only get until only 790,000 or 800,000 points. So it was quite remarkable for him that a person was able to achieve 100 million points.

Ohori-san responds that Xevious was launched when he had been in second year high school in January or February. Further, two weeks after, because he couldn't finish the game, he began to write the guide. Ohori-san also points out that because Okamoto-san was able to get around 800,000 points, he was already in stage 16 of the game, after which, the game would repeat. So along with striving not to lose any remaining planes, the player must have the ability to endure, something that, Okamoto-san admits, is very challenging, because he's never been able to reach up to the third round.

In addition, Okamoto-san points out that Xevious was the number 2 game at the time based on global sales.

This is all. Of course, there are many more things to say from their conversation, but let's end up to this point for now.

This is all. 

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike
