https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASV7M7JQ8V7MUTQP003M.html?pn=5&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20260720

> Spains wins the FIFA World Cup Championship, weaking Argentina's stamina with skillfull ball control

> 2026-07-20T08:12

> Author: Satoshi Ushio

> Translator: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-07-20

## --

Spain wins the championship against Argentina 1-0 in this year's FIFA World Cup. 

It was indeed a top-class battle between the world's number 1, Argentina, and Europe's number 2, Spain. In this article, I identify the keypoints in the game that led to Spain's victory. 

While both teams knew each other like the palm of their hands, their conscientious effort to avoid losing a point in the first half of the match was especially striking. Both continued to spend plenty of time fiercly attacking and equally defending in the mid-field, not letting anyone advance toward the goal.

Spain was particularly cautious against their opponent's counter offense, and avoided carelessly losing the ball. With all the members of Argentina's team having gone through additional physical training, they defended splendidly to ward off Spain's cross passing offense.

The key that led to Argentina's losing a point was most likely related to a momentary indecision on their part. Such was my impression by the end of the first half.

## --

As a team, Spain showed superior ball control.

## --

Even though both teams had the same ability to run long-distances at 10km/hr, when this is combined with passing and having to defend, the latter was left a little breathless. As time passed, Argentina's movement slowed.

Even during the 8th match of the World Cup, Spain, who was leading and moving the ball themselves, must not have been too tired as well.

During the latter half, Argentina's MF Fernandez, who continued to run to defend, had to leave the field after getting two yellow cards. He probably lost focus after having to run to defend, hence, the careless fouls.

Spain's ball control was like a body-blow to a cornered Argentina, robbing it of its stamina.

## --

Both exhausted every possible means.

## --

After having gotten Argentina's player out of the field, Spain's team was one member more and they increased their cross passing offense. Regardless of the side to which Argentina's defense moved, when Spain swung to the other side, their defense weakened.

The winning point came from a cross pass from the right to the left and toward the goal. It was a reasonable offense.

With 10 players, Argentina exuded its ever-present fighting spirit. They finished runner-up in this year's World Cup, demonstrating another kind of love for the sport, one that is different from merely employing tactics or technique. 

## Reference

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE

<br/>
<br/>
