https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260224PM.md; last accessed: 20260225

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Pokémon Illustrator card has been valued at approximately 2.5 billion yen at the auction

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-25

## --

Dear friends,

Today, I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's most recent lecture about a card from the Pokémon Trading Card Game that's been valued at approximately 2.5 billion yen at the auction. Further, Okamoto-san points out that this remarkable achievement has been recorded in the Guinness.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-CpoLifjes; last accessed: 20260224

> トレカ史上最高取引額25億円⁉︎どこまでも値上がりし続けるTCG市場について語る

## --

But before saying more, Okamoto-san reveals that he's returned to Japan and has caught a cold, such that his voice isn't his usually one.

Next, Okamoto-san shares that he has an employee who doesn't invest in stocks at all, only in cards. Okamoto-san also believes that like what's been announced, the value of these cards could go up extraordinarily high.

What's more, the Pokémon card that cost 2.5 billion yen is the Pokémon Illustrator card. According to Okamoto-san, this card was only given to outstanding winners and wasn't sold in the years from 1997 to 1998. Moreover, it's said that there are only 39 or 40 of this exact card in the world.

Okamoto-san explains that it's supposed that the four elements that influence the value of the cards are: the popularity of the character, the rarity, the state or condition of the card, and the presence of collaboration with another franchise.

Finally, Okamoto-san advises very much investing in cards, and says that he also wants to hear our comments about this topic.

So, what I'd want to say is that like in the case of the Magic The Gather (MTG), these card games give artists the chance to show their abilities through illustrations that are in relatively small frames, and when I was playing MTG from 1995 to 2002, I could remember some aspects of the drawings, although the details, even the name, perhaps weren't too specific. An example is the card, "Nevinyrral's Disk," which I no longer can recall well the name before looking it up, but up to now, I do remember that there's a strange finger in its drawing.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike