https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260528/20260528PM.md; last accessed: 20260529

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Pre-orders are now being accepted to buy the NEOGEO AES+, which will be out on November 12th of this year in commemoration of the NEOGEO's 35th anniversary

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-29

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the news that pre-orders to buy the NEOGEO AES+ console are now being accepted. It will be out on November 12th of this year in commemoration of the NEOGEO's 35th anniversary.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FdJUBaHRwoU; last accessed: 20260528

> ネオジオがまさかの完全復活！11/12発売のNEOGEO AES+についてお話しします。

## --

Okamoto-san shares with us that many people are excited about this announcement, and according to data, there are already 5,000 people who've placed their pre-orders to buy the NEOGEO AES+.

In addition, Okamoto-san says that the console uses the cartridges of the NEOGEO as well as those of the arcade, so the fans, who still own cartridges throughout the years, will be able to plug them into this console as well.

With respect to the price, this edition, which celebrates the NEOGEO's 35th anniversary, will cost 49,800 yen, and will include a white console (32,800 yen) and a cartridge of the first Metal Slug game (9,980 yen).

Further, a collection that includes 10 games, an arcade stick, a memory card, in addition to the console, will cost a total of 150,000 yen. Okamoto-san thinks that it's a bit expensive, because all the games are already available on Nintendo Switch as downloadable games for just under 6,000 yen.

Next, Okamoto-san recalls the time when SNK and Capcom competed. Okamoto-san says that in the beginning, SNK wasn't so formidable, but when Mr. Takashi Nishiyama moved to SNK from Capcom with around 1/3 of Capcom's employees, Okamoto-san felt that Capcom was dealt a huge blow. SNK became a rival that would compete with Capcom. 

Okamoto-san also reveals that he was living in a house very near SNK's headquarters, at the next train station. Okamoto-san shares that SNK's owner, Mr. Eikichi Kawasaki, had been inviting him to drink beer, and Okamoto-san had put on an Adidas sports attire or some other with rubbershoes to be able to run back to Capcom after accepting the invitation of Kawasaki-san to go out. Okamoto-san explains that while the owners of SNK and Capcom weren't good friends, the employees of both studios drank beer and exchanged news, among other things. According to Okamoto-san, Nishiyama-san, the planner of Spartan X and Moon Patrol, is five years older than him, and from whom Okamoto-san learned many things including the creation of plans and official documents that Nishiyama-san brought to Capcom from his former studio, Irem. Furthermore, Okamoto-san says that Nishiyama-san was living in the same apartment that Okamoto-san was and, moreover, they were both using the same perfume.

Still, the competition between Capcom and SNK was so intense that every month, both studios launched games that would include SNK titles like Garo Densetsu and Ryuko no Ken. But, originally, players were supposed to play a fighting game for a year, such that each month that the two studios released a new one, in the end, led to a feeling that players had to play the new release right away. Because of this, players, who had achieved a high skill level in the game, must again begin another game from scratch.

As a result, SNK went bankrupt due to low capital, while Capcom was in a precarious situation, delayed in the launching of 3D games. Okamoto-san recounts that it appeared that they were in hell to develop and launch Resident Evil after the release of the first Street Fighter. While Capcom was able to survive, it didn't mean that it would be able to continue to survive. Moreover, at the arcades, aside from the release of 3D games such as Virtua Fighter and Tekken, the 2D games from both SNK and Capcom were so disorganized that players of 2D fighting games left the game centers.

In the end, although Okamoto-san wanted to help the owners of the game center, the competition between SNK and Capcom resulted in the decrease of 2D fighting games in the game centers, and in their stead, more machines that seemed to be unrelated to games were placed. Okamoto-san gives examples like the UFO Catcher and the PURIKURA.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
