https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260202/20260202AM.md; last accessed: 20260202

> Community Stories: The Defense against Would-be Crooks

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-02

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the results of our dear, but flawed, system of governance for the month of February 2026.

First and foremost, bad food. As most of you may have also observed, videos about food on YouTube have been getting a lot more attention than even billion-dollar esports tournaments. 

In fact, Japanese esports athlete [Tokido](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLN8AGZFd8BxGr3kx1r-dbg) shows more of this sort of video than actual gameplay footages in his own channel, markedly different from our friends at [WEILI channel](https://www.youtube.com/@weiligaming) of Guangdong province in Southern China. 

The reality that we are all looking for good, quality food speaks about our dissatisfaction toward the food that is being served at restaurants, regardless of whether they're the fine-dining type or a well-recognizable fast-food joint.

In this regard, I was reminded of the predicament that public personalties and the like must face, that is, getting bad food from people who don’t like them.

Due to our currently overpopulated society, we must all now contend with giving jobs to people who are in-need of money, even if these jobs aren't really necessary. This is supposedly done, more as a form of defense against would-be crooks than anything else.

Moreover, as you may have also noticed, not a few of these people have been putting cigarettes or vape into their mouths. They may be the security guards at the parking lots, the boys who bring the purified drinking water containers, or the men at the back of the pizza parlor.

While the tasks that are given them may appear to be ridiculously simple, they aren't doing them right. Walkways smell of cigarette smoke that lingers, or that of vape, whose smoke quickly turns invisible. These make people's heads ache and forcibly cause passersby to feel dizzy for long periods of time. 

No wonder the supposedly purified drinking water has too much purifier, or the fried potatoes have gotten too salty. 

While we all don't want to point fingers and say that these workers and the establishments that they're part of are knowingly serving bad food, and with malevolent intent at that, a key piece to the problem leads us to these people who are in-need of money and are smoking cigarettes or vape.

In the end, bad food, people in-need money and smoke in the air are the results of a flawed system that has produced an overly populated society incapable of learning through the current means. When classrooms are cramped and workplaces are filled by easily replaceable low-skilled workers, birthrate isn't reduced, and the memory of street children and homeless beggars will never be a thing of the past akin to the cavemen in our history books. 

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike