https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260202PM.md; last accessed: 20260203

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Talk with Keiji Inafune, the Creator of Megaman, about Street Fighter IV and Their Thoughts about Retirement

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-03

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the succeeding parts in the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Keiji Inafune, the creator of Mega Man.

In the third part of their conversation, Inafune-san recounts how Street Fighter IV began to be produced.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gZWdJ61tc0U; last accessed: 20260202

> カプコンから独立後に上手くいかなかった2人が改めて「ゲーム会社の経営」の難しさを語る【稲船敬二さん特別対談③】

## --

First, he explains that for many years after the launch of Street Fighter III, Capcom had not released any Street Fighter, and every time Inafune-san traveled to the United States, he was asked about the release date of the next Street Fighter. He reveals that the desire for this franchise was so great, even more than any other, that he went to Mr. Takashi Nishiyama of Dimps to convey this message.

Inafune-san points out that he didn't go to Mr. Akira Nishitani, because he wanted to go to Nishiyama-san himself, who worked on the first game. The challenge was that if Nishiyama-san were to create the next Street Fighter after the first one, like what Nishitani-san had done with Street Fighter II, what game would he create. The result of this is what we can now recognize as Street Fighter IV.

In the conversation this evening, Inafune-san reveals that he wanted to retire at 55 years old, but he's now 60, and is currently working at another studio that isn't his.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ieup2lSTv94; last accessed: 20260202

> ゲームクリエイターの引退は考えてる？【稲船敬二さん対談最終回】

## --

He says that he's very grateful for this studio's support to allow him to launch his creations. He admits that he's thinking about not focusing too much on his own creations, but rather on training his younger colleagues to become leaders. Further, he expresses his desire to bring up the reputation of the studio in five years.

Meanwhile, Okamoto-san shares with him his desire to design a house for free as a hobby. He also clarifies that what he only wants to focus on is the design, not the rest that are also necessary to actually turn this house into a reality. He reveals that it's better to do this instead of later regretting that he didn't do it. And after doing everything that he wanted, Okamoto-san says that he could already die.

Inafune-san also shares that when he entered Capcom for the first time, he discovered that people could read Jump manga comics while receiving salary. Everything was very liberal. In addition, there was a gym. Okamoto-san adds that if they had moved to another location, the convenience store below their office's floor could go bankrupt.

Finally, Okamoto-san says that Capcom grew very quickly from a small studio. Inafune-san believes that it's really cool to create another studio that could grow so much. Of course, he says, being liberal with some restrictions is necessary.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike