https://github.com/usbong/personal/tree/main/milestone/2025/202508/20250817/20250817PM.md; last accessed: 20250818

> Continuation of the Talk between Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto and Analyst Hirakazu Hirabayashi on the "Pokémon Trading Card Game"

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-08-18

## Last updated: 2025-08-19T09:13

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the continuation of the talk between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Hirakazu Hirabayashi on the "Pokémon Trading Card Game."

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3EIDxJ18hjU; last accessed: 20250818

> 日本初の本格TCG『ポケカ』の誕生秘話を詳しい人に解説してもらいました：ゲームアナリスト平林久和さんZoom対談

## --

Hirabayashi-san explains that although we can see that the direction of the franchise has continued to rise these past years, the truth is that it has encountered several challenges, such as the appearance of rivals. He didn't specifically identify who these rivals are, but as a solution, in 2010 or 2011, Creatures, one of the main studios of the franchise, participated in a collaboration with McDonald's.

Moreover, he says that the company had probably done other collaborations before, although this time it seems to Hirabayashi-san that perhaps the idea to return to the other party a favor that it has received generously before may be the reason for the tie-up, because the Pokémon brand was already well-known during that time.

Okamoto-san points out, however, that what's clear is that the guys who're part of the Pokémon brand wanted to expand their market for children even further. He also explains that the Japanese have the culture of not putting money at the highest priority, so although they can set the prices higher, they don't.

Okamoto-san also says that the resellers, who'll buy these special products like the new Happy Meal, won't in fact eat all the food and instead will put them inside their refrigerators. On the other hand, it seems to him that it's completely different in the U.S., because people over there are used to throwing away food that they no longer want. Here, Okamoto-san is talking about the difference in cultures between Japan and the U.S.

Next, Okamoto-san advises again the idea of adding an option to donate the money for the food to schools and similar organizations.

Hirabayashi-san, for his part, says that a rule can also be added so that the buyer can only receive the special Pokémon x McDonald's cards after consuming the food.

However, Okamoto-san doesn't agree with this idea, and prefers that the Pokémon cards are received immediately.

In addition, he says that there has to be a rule to verify if the person really knows the Pokémon characters or does he only want to buy the Happy Meal in order to sell the cards later.

Finally, Okamoto-san believes that the resellers won't disappear, and that what we need to do is to adjust the rules so that everyone wins.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike