https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202607/20260707/20260707PM.md; last accessed: 20260708

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Sony will end the production of discs starting January 2028

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-07-08

## Last updated: 2026-07-09T09:14

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the news that Sony will be ending production of discs starting January 2028.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YI9kVh4Jgb4; last accessed: 20260707

> 【時事】ディスク版が消滅する時代がついに来たか…PS向け新作ゲームについて、2028年1月よりゲームディスクの生産を終了へ

## --

Okamoto-san recounts that he remembers the time when MASK ROMs inside the Famicom cartridges were being used and which at times had to be blown to be able to affix well into the console. After many years since discs began to be used for the PlayStation, tech giant Sony has finally decided to end the use of discs.

Okamoto-san admits that he's on the side of the people who want to own discs, so he gives several examples that would happen as a result once this decision takes effect.

Among the several examples that Okamoto-san has talked about, I recall some such as friends will no longer be able to exchange various discs that they've bought, stores will no longer be able to sell old discs, physical presents that accompany the discs will disappear, hobbyists will no longer be able to collect discs nor will they put them on their shelves, and many more.

On the other hand, Okamoto-san explains that it seems that the main reason why Sony has decided to end the use of discs is because the company will be able to gain more advantages than disadvantages from it. Specifically, Okamoto-san points out that when buyers are able to download what they want easily, the studios would not lose money, simply because a physical store no longer has any copy or the buyer has forgotten to pass by the store. Okamoto-san also details that the payments for distribution and keeping unsold physical copies in the warehouse could now be passed on to the developers, meaning that they'll be able to make more money as a result. Finally, Okamoto-san reveals that Sony may be thinking that discs aren't anymore necessary, because buyers can now download them.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
