https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260317PM.md; last accessed: 20260318

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The reality that video game creators can't achieve FIRE (Financial Independence, Retire Early)

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-18

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the reality that video game creators aren't able to achieve FIRE (Financial Independence, Retire Early).

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rCKWy-tgfhw; last accessed: 20260317

> 【闇深い】想像以上に稼げない人気職種“ゲームクリエイター”その理由は…？ 

## --

First, Okamoto-san reveals that this situation is due to people announcing that they're video game creators, yet aren't really involved in the side of the business that is management which includes accounting.

However, there are, of course, creators who've worked as producer as well as president of a studio, while working as a video game creator, and have, therefore, been able to achieve FIRE. Okamoto-san cits names as examples of these creators who, he believes, have achieved it: Mr. Masahiro Sakurai, Mr. Yuji Horii, and Mr. Hiroyuki Sonobe. Furthermore, Okamoto-san mentions Mr. Shigeru Miyamoto who works as a Board of Director at Nintendo.

Okamoto-san, for his part, points out that one reason why he left Capcom to establish his own studio, Game Republic, in the first place was precisely to achieve FIRE. He explains that in addition to Capcom, there were other famous studios like Sony, Konami, Sega, Atlas, Hudson and Taito in which a person could work, but he thinks that not many studios were available to help a person achieve FIRE. Moreover, although a creator might have produced a very popular game, it didn't mean that he'll be getting a high income afterward. In fact, Okamoto-san thinks that it's better to work as president of a smaller studio and launch not-so stellar games in order to achieve FIRE.

Finally, Okamoto-san hopes that, just like what is done outside Japan, managers of studios in Japan would give successful creators company shares so that Japanese creators would also achieve FIRE.

This is all. I've written here what I think are the important ideas in Okamoto-san's talk without worrying too much about the details of every point.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike
