https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260120/20260120PM.md; last accessed: 20260121

> Stories from Prof. Joi Ito of Chiba Institute of Technology: "Cracked Engineers," a new generation of engineers who use AI to amplify their abilities

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-21

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Prof. Joi Ito's new video about the use of AI to amplify the abilities of engineers and many others.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KJZUu4sygX4; last accessed: 20260120

> なぜ今、シリコンバレーで「1人スタートアップ」が急増しているのか？AIエージェントが変える仕事の終焉

## --

Joi-sensei reveals that there are now engineers who use AI to help them program much faster, even founding their own startups by themselves. In fact, according to data, these solo founders already occupy at least 30% of the total startup founders.

He also explains that previously engineers didn't want "AI agents" and their help, but Joi-sensei says that there's now a new generation of engineers who have the capability to do work a lot faster with the help of AI.

They are called "Cracked Engineers," and Joi-sensei is very excited to learn about what they'll do.

He further points out that although prior to this what was most important wasn't the idea but its execution, now the idea has turned into one that is more important than the latter, because people, not only engineers, can already ask AI to create programs for them.

Joi-sensei emphasizes that it's already a present day skill to manage well multitudes of AI agents in order to do work, and one person no longer needs many other people, except maybe the manager and another companion.

Finally, Joi-sensei reiterates that he's very fascinated with "sado," a practice that involves tea, and he knows that since he's often very busy, he greatly values AI, which helps him manage his time, including gathering news about sado and reminding him of the days when he needs the kimono for his wife.

This is all. Of course, there are many more things that Joi-sensei has said, but I'll need to stop here already. 

Thank you. 

Regards,

Mike