https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202510/20251023/20251023PM.md; last accessed: 20251024

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The interview with Mr. Yutaka Saito, the creator of the game, Seaman, for the Sega Dreamcast console

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-10-24

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the interview that Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto had with Mr. Yutaka Saito, who is the creator of the game, Seaman, for Sega's Dreamcast video game console.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mteth7sKS5A; last accessed: 20251023

> 【コラボ企画】超名作『シーマン』はこうして生まれた！【斎藤由多加(ゲームクリエイター)対談】(前編)

## --

Here, Saito-san shares the story of when he developed with his team this rather peculiar game. It was the year before 2000 when it was thought that the world would end soon. 

He explains that the truth was that his team had tried out many ideas before choosing to produce this game. They used the recordings of Saito-san's voice so that the video game character, who had a face similar to him and the body of a fish, could speak several words and phrases.

In addition, the idea was that along with the use of a camera, the said character would say something like the player's name in order to frighten him. So, for example, when a person was doing something different like reading an article from the internet on the computer, the Seaman would say out-loud his name and call his attention.

Saito-san believed that it was better that people didn't like the character, and thought that it was an indication that the game could sell a lot, because during that time, it was believed that what a Japanese person didn't want would surely have a market in the U.S.

With respect to the recordings, although nowadays we already have a text-to-speech feature where each syllabus is pronounced, in 1999, they had to record a list of Japanese names to create this feature.

Finally, Saito-san reveals that the game didn't make a lot of money. While he did also go to the bank to borrow money, he was told that they couldn't give him any, because this game still didn't have an example of a game in the same genre that had made money. Saito-san admits that its genre itself wasn't also clear.

This is all. Saito-san also mentioned several well-known names like, for example, Mr. Masayoshi Son of SoftBank and Mr. Tsuyoshi Kusanagi of SMAP, so there are still plenty of things to say about their interview, but I should already stop here.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike