https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260524/20260524PM.md; last accessed: 20260525

> Stories from Game Producer Shinichiro Obata: The conversation between Shinichiro Obata of Byking and Shinichi Kameoka of Brownies

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-25

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you the conversation between Mr. Shinichiro Obata of Byking and Mr. Shinichi Kameoka of Brownies.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GMaIzDrr0rY; last accessed: 20260524

> 【#1】ゲームの世界観を構築するときは〇〇から作る!?そんな亀岡さんに一問一答! :ゲスト 亀岡 慎一【#クリエイター偉人伝】

## --

First, Ms. AI introduces to us Kameoka-san who was responsible for well-known video games including the Secret of Mana series in addition to being involved in Mother 3 when he was at Square (currently Square Enix) as well as Saga Frontier when he was in the studio, Brownie Brown.

Next, Ms. AI asks Kameoka-san about his life.

Kameoka-san answers that his hobby is currently playing Mölkky, a sport from Finland. Moreover, Kameoka-san says that he's with a small team of four people developing a game.

Kameoka-san also reveals that he began to draw in kindergarten, the same with many children. He also wondered if he would continue or look for another hobby. However, he admits that his family wasn't very rich, so he thought that if he only had paper and pencil he could pass the time drawing. In fact, he says that he used the vacant part of the newspaper to create his drawings.

Also, he shares that after graduating from art school, he was able to quickly get a job as a comic book or manga artist. During that time, he was doing a series for the magazine, "Gekkan Shounen Magajin." Still, while he enjoyed drawing very much, he didn't like other people telling him what he'd draw, so it was a very challenging work for him. After the series ended, Kameoka-san was able to take time off from work, although he found that he couldn't continue to get work from Kodansha anymore.

Further, Kameoka-san recounts that in those days he found something that he hadn't thought about prior. He says that comic books about the salaryman (regular official workers) were very popular, giving examples like "Sarariman Kintaro" and "Bucho Shima Kosaku." Kameoka-san also admits that at that time he still didn't understand the structure of the Japanese company well, so he thought about learning this subject. Also, because he thought that after 30 years old, it would most probably be very difficult for him to find a job, he decided to pass an application to work at a company.

However, he reveals that graduates like himself still couldn't pass an application just like other people, because there wasn't a career for signboard makers, nor animators. So when he looked into the classified ads in the magazines, he found the phrase, "We're hiring video game creators" and found that the time had come, so that artists like himself could find formal work. Fortunately, among these studios recruiting, there was Square where the artist, Mr. Yoshitaka Amano, well-known for the character designs of Final Fantasy was working. At this point, Obata-san points out that it was very useful to have the exeperience of drawing a series for a magazine, although Kameoka-san believes that in those days, video game studios still didn't know exactly what they needed from the applicants in terms of qualification.

Kameoka-san also says that he wants to share with us the importance of forming a global perspective, recounting that the first time that he made a design was for shoes and although there are many varieties of shoes all over the world, he believes that they basically use the same design. Thus, he was able to apply this same concept equally in other products such as clothes as well. Although he's committed many mistakes, he thinks that they weren't too big, even though he wants to preserve better the data including the designs for future use better ever since.

Finally, Kameoka-san reveals that a game that he's created that gives him the feeling of having achieved success is "EGGLIA," because coming from his job as a comic book artist, he wanted to be the person who guides the direction of any work. Kameoka-san also says that to create a new game in a new genre is a task that he's already doing and which makes him work and strive hard together with programmers every day, but one that he hopes that many people would anticipate.

This is all. I end here this part of the conversation between Obata-san and Kameoka-san.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
