https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260213PM.md; last accessed: 20260214

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Starbucks Coffee Franchise

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-14

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about Starbucks, the coffee franchise.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oxBJ9-89Ddg; last accessed: 20260213

> あの世界的コーヒーチェーン店に終わりが見えてきました…【スターバックス】｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, he reveals that 70% of Starbucks' worldwide sales come from the US. Most recently, however, the popularity of Starbucks has gone down and many of its stores have closed.

Next, Okamoto-san explains that when a new CEO arrives in any company, he'd always think about aiming to achieve success by reducing costs.

Okamoto-san further recounts that Starbucks' original vision is to create a third space for people, which is why they strived hard so that their customers could enjoy drinking coffee while in a comfortable environment.

Okamoto-san also points out that although Starbucks' coffee isn't very impressive, and there are other stores where people can go for coffee, he admits that the food that could go with the drinks are delicious.

However, given that Starbucks conveys the impression of something expensive or overpriced, it seems to Okamoto-san that people would rather go to another place. Okamoto-san also reveals that in the provincial part of Johor in Malaysia, Starbucks' stores continue to close down, and he's worried that he'd not have the place that he often goes to with his colleagues, particularly when they had been playing Monster Hunter and drinking Starbucks' Ice Coffee.

Okamoto-san explains that in Malaysia there aren't many places to drink coffee, even though there's another franchise called Coffee Bean (and Tea Leaf). He also shares his observation that the customers of Starbucks in Malaysia almost don't include citizens of the country, but instead foreigners from China, South Korea and Japan.

Finally, Okamoto-san believes that the three reasons why Starbucks isn't valued are: people have already lost interest in it, it's too expensive, it gives off a bad impression of an old franchise. Further still, Okamoto-san thinks that Starbucks is a brand that is like those that are already going down after 40 or 50 years in the business, although he believes that there may still be a chance to revive it if it could launch a new product like tapioca, as well as not attract inconsiderate customers who ruin the Starbucks' ambiance by bringing printers, among others. Okamoto-san, therefore, concludes that he doesn't recommend buying the shares of Starbucks right now, though he wants to listen or read our opinions on this topic as well.

As a response, I'd like to say that I no longer drink coffee or the varieties of tea that have caffeine, and I think that many stores that I visit in the Philippines aren't so great, even the old ones from many years ago. For example, food have burnt parts or the soup is too sweet. These days, I prefer to cook my own food using crushed tomatoes with bread and mozzarella cheese or eat fruits like bananas or oranges without adding sugar or some other.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike