https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260205PM.md; last accessed: 20260206

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: "Oji/Oba attack," an activity between men and women whose ages are different

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-06

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about an activity between men and women whose ages are different.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YQwxLaYaT-0; last accessed: 20260205

> 婚活「おじ(おば)アタック」って何？痛すぎるおじ（おば）さんの行動とは｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san explains that when a much older man invites a younger women on a date, it's called "oji attack." On the other hand, when a much older woman invites a younger man on a date, it's called "oba attack."

Next, Okamoto-san gives the example in which he's 64 years old and the woman is in her 30s. Although Okamoto-san likes this woman for her intelligence, youth and ability to bear children, the woman doesn't love him, because, as Okamoto-san explains, he's age is the same as the woman's father.

Okamoto-san shares his observation that the success rate is better when the woman's age is higher than the man's. However, he thinks that a difference of five years at most is recommendable for women. In addition, for men, 40 years of age, with an additional two more years at most, seems to go well even for a 34 or more-year old partner.

Okamoto-san also points out that when the age difference rises, the expected income and assets that the man should have also rise. However, in general, Okamoto-san says that as long as the man has achieved FIRE, that is, he doesn't need to work because he has enough passive income, there's an opportunity for a pair to be able to achieve success.

However, Okamoto-san believes that while a woman says that she appears young, a difference of 40 years doesn't go well, even though this could happen on TV shows.

Finally, Okamoto-san advises that given that money is necessary in any relationship, he thinks that it's better that a man, who receives income equivalent to that in Japan, marries a women from overseas where the price of goods and services is cheaper. Further, Okamoto-san wants that we could marry a partner, and in order to do this, we should, in addition, lower our own evaluations of ourselves.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike