https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202606/20260617/20260617PM.md; last accessed: 20260618

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Master Illustrator Susumu Matsushita

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-06-18

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's conversation with master illustrator Mr. Susumu Matsushita from five years ago. Matsushita-san comes to share his story as well as the path that he's taken in the art industry.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0HpXIDg_ajY; last accessed: 20260617

> 【コラボ動画】プロの絵師になる方法を超有名イラストレーターに聞いてみた【松下進先生対談】

## --

Matsushita-san explains that during that time, Hollywood billboards were still paintings instead of photos, and used material known as "masking paper," which couldn't be marked with only a pencil. Matsushita-san then imported it and was able to create very unique illustrations.

He also admits that he wasn't the first illustrator who promoted the use of airbrushes, but Ms. Harumi Yamaguchi. Okamoto-san responds that with the airbrush he ended up being able to draw bullets pretty well. Matsushita-san then gives emphasis in the value of drawing the egg, which a novice can't still do very well. 

Next, Matsushita-san shares that he received jobs to illustrate the various brands of Nippon Professional Baseball, and afterward characters like POPEYE for magazines.

Further, Matsushita-san recounts that he very much enjoyed drawing since childhood, reading the Japanese manga comics from Soji Yamakawa which were in his house, those from Tezuka Osamu as well as from Shotaro Ishinomori. In addition, Matsushita-san mentions DC comics like Superman and those from Marvel, pointing out their more realistic drawing style that he likes very much

Afterward, Okamoto-san admits that he doesn't watch today's anime, because they aren't as interesting as before. He gives the example of "Kinmetsu no Yaiba," which many people watch, but Okamoto-san doesn't like. However, because he wants to understand the reason for its popularity, he explains that he must watch it until he understands.

Matsushita-san responds that the anime of today has the personality of today as well. However, he thinks that they're becoming more alike. Still, he admits that the way to draw that he's been using since childhood hasn't changed after many years. He also recounts the days when he still had a building for his own studio in Harajuku, and worked until late in the night, because he liked to do it. In the end, he's sold this building, and currently lives as a semi-professional musician with his beautiful wife. Okamoto-san recalls that according to his colleague Mr. AKIMAN, as the decades go by, less and less people continue to work as illustrator, so much so that it seems that nobody can be an illustrator anymore at 70. However, Mr. AKIMAN mentions to Okamoto-san that he wants to continue to draw at 70 and beyond.

With respect to his father, Matsushita-san shares that he was an employee of Matsushita Denki (PANASONIC), and was related, although very far, to Mr. Konosuka Matsushita, the founder of PANASONIC, according to their family tree. The founder was also from Osaka City, while Mr. Susumu Matsushita and his father are from Tokyo.

Finally, Matsushita-san advises aspiring novices to leave the flat plane to learn more including the design of 3D CG, animations and storytelling.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
