https://github.com/usbong/personal/tree/main/milestone/2025/202508/20250821PM/20250821PM.md; last accessed: 20250822

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Bad Cheese, a new game with a Disney feel

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-08-22

## Last updated: 2025-08-23T13:58

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Ms. Tapi's new YouTube Live video yesterday. 

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cA-cZifAziQ; last accessed: 20250822

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ(25年8月21日)

## --

The topic was about "Bad Cheese," a new game that has a 1920's Disney feel to it.

Okamoto-san said that in Japan, animation, including characters from the 1970's, for instance, aren't anymore seen on TV. He also gave well-known examples like Doraemon, Popeye, Mickey Mouse and Gundam (the first generation), which have classic versions.

Next, he said that in the 90's, during around 1995, Disney had been strict in terms of copyrights, and had likely not allowed another company to use them without its permission.

However, Okamoto-san pointed out that if the drawings of Mickey Mouse or something similar to Mickey Mouse were used in schools, it wouldn't be necessary to pay for the copyright, and it's okay to use them.

In addition, he gave an example where a store in Japan used the face of Mickey Mouse on their bread, and was penalized. Ms. Tapi said that it had been similar to the Anpan-man bread that can be seen today.

Also, Okamoto-san explained that lawyers in Japan generally have standard pricing for clients who may want to avail of their services. But one way to get them to work harder is to give them higher incentives if they can win the case in court.

Finally, although Okamoto-san believed that the game, Bad Cheese, only almost didn't infringe Disney's copyrights, he didn't want to be where it's at, nor did he want to go through such type of experience. That is, it's better to have Disney's copyrights.

Before closing, I'd also like to share with you Okamoto-san's answer regarding several questions that came up after his talk. In particular, he was asked his advice on how to become a video game producer.

He answered that while each person would have a  different experience, it appears to him that if the person can achieve success with one game, for example, within seven years, he'll have the opportunity to become a video game producer.

However, to produce a game these days, an amount ranging from 2 billion up to 10 billion yen would be necessary, and Okamoto-san said that after retiring and leaving the corporate world, he wants to create games like those from indie game developers.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike