https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20250930/20250930PM.md; last accessed: 20251001

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The importance of graphics for gamers in the context of the new Biohazard Requiem

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-10-01

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the new Biohazard Requiem for the Switch 2.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0lQi1gWf04s; last accessed: 20251001

> 【Switch2版】バイオ新作に高画質クオリティは必要なのか？『バイオハザード レクイエム』スイッチ2版発売決定

## --

In particular, the topic is about the importance of graphics for gamers.

Okamoto-san says that if we check which entry in the series frightened people the most, perhaps, the fourth might be the one that gets chosen, although it appears to Okamoto-san that the first is the most frightening. 

He also says that, in truth, he had done the debugging of the game and even brought it to his house in those years during the 90s.

He explains that although its graphics aren't at par with what we have nowadays, the game made good use of the capabilities of the PlayStation. This is why he felt scared when he went to the toilet and opened the door. In addition, he says that when it was dark, he'd be easily frightened if someone suddenly screamed.

Since the quality of the graphics drops on Switch 2 if we compare it with the PlayStation 5's, the question is whether or not players would buy Sony's console in order to play the game.

He believes that given that players think that PlayStation 6 will soon be coming out, they wouldn't buy the PlayStation 5 anymore.

Also, Okamoto-san says that sometimes he prefers to play a bit when he's seated inside his car and has a driver, so a portable console is better for him. 

Finally, he'll be getting hold of the game for his Switch 2, because he has the console, even though he's worried that the framerate would drop to 20. He says that he's already satisfied with 30fps.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike