https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260210PM.md; last accessed: 20260211

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Pokémon Trading Card Game Pocket (Poke Poke)'s Year 1

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-11

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the anniversary of Poke Poke, or the Pokémon Trading Card Game Pocket.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y2cSAJx7xx8; last accessed: 20260210

> 【すごい】ポケポケ売上2000億円、1年間で7000万件のダウンロード！

## --

According to Okamoto-san, after a year, the game has been downloaded 90 million times and has achieved 200 billion yen in sales.

Okamoto-san also reveals that he buys and sells the shares of its development studio, DeNA, but, this time, although he thought that the value of the shares would go up, the truth is that despite the aforementioned achievements, the share value has gone done considerably.

He also points out that although Nintendo's shares are currently stable, the earnings of DeNA, which used the rights of Pokémon to develop and launch the game, did not become as high as he had expected. Therefore, it appears to Okamoto-san that owning the rights of a well-known franchise doesn't guarantee that a studio would earn a lot.

Next, Okamoto-san gives data that indicate that the country where there are the most downloaders of this game live is the US, while the country where there are the most players who put money in it is Japan.

Okamoto-san also explains that he's played and also put money into the game, but in the end he doesn't like the battles, because although he thinks that they was developed like that so as not to be too complicated, the need to collect cards in order to create a powerful deck loses its significance, the opposite of what Okamoto-san had initially thought was important.

As a result, what he only does is log into the game and open cards without putting in more money. For Okamoto-san, there's no more meaning in putting in more. Further, there are days when he couldn't login because he's busy, and thinks that the number of users each day and each month is also going down.

At this point, Okamoto-san shares with us his observation that the share value had sharply gone up, and afterward had sharply gone down. Although it hasn't yet fallen to zero, it maintains a considerably low value.

Okamoto-san assumes that if there are 8 million people all over the world, over 1% of them play this game. But the number of players who put money is still low, and because of that, Okamoto-san thinks that the ages of these players are also low. Okamoto-san therefore believes that the game's been developed so that young players won't need to put money, and could collect a series of cards in the game. However, given that the payments for the servers are high, Okamoto-san is worried about the future of the game later on.

Finally, Okamoto-san advises us to try it if we haven't played it yet, because opening a pack of cards is very fun because of not knowing what's inside, and perhaps we might even like its gameplay, even though it wasn't what Okamoto-san had expected. 

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike