https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202606/20260627/20260627PM.md; last accessed: 20260628

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The new Indie game, "Meccha Camereon," has sold 5 million copies in only two months (it's now 10 million copies)

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-06-28

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video about the "Meccha Camereon," a new indie game that has sold 5 million copies in only two months (it's now 10 million copies).

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-y3qwsGJNLg; last accessed: 20260627

>  【話題】1000万本ヒット！インディーゲーム「めっちゃカメレオン」ノープロモで売れた理由は

## --

Okamoto-san is very excited for this achievement, pointing out that, in addition, the studio, which is composed of only two people, had not used any promotions for the game at all.

Okamoto-san also says that the game costs only 790 yen, a very affordable amount akin to buying a drink like coffee outside. It's also not as expensive as other games that cost 8,000 or 9,000 yen. Thus, at such a bargain price, a person could already enjoy a very cool game.

Next, Okamoto-san recounts that the two developers have earned 4 billion yen and after deducting tax, among other expenses like the payment fees to Steam, they've gotten a little less than 200 million yen. Further, Okamoto-san believes that 100 million yen would be enough to live comfortably, especially if they invest the money in the stock market to earn 8% interest, so that they could get around 700,000 yen per month. However, it seems that they want to continue working.

Okamoto-san also mentions that, actually, he prefers role-playing games or those that let him think unhurriedly. So, while Okamoto-san has created many action games, other non-action-type of games are also a market segment that is both big and new for him.

Finally, Okamoto-san reiterates that he's very much fascinated with this two-person studio and their new game, particularly because in a big studio, stock prices in the stock market as well as dividends get more attention, at times, at the expense of the employees, who must work very hard despite not getting large benefits, something that, Okamoto-san admits, cannot be helped.

This is all. Okamoto-san has said much more, but I should end here already.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
