https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260228/20260228PM.md; last accessed: 20260301

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: A chat with "NishiP," the president of Sugorokksu as well as a former employee at Sega, about Sega's arcade machines

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-01

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's conversation with NishiP-san (Yasuhiro Nishiyama), the president of Sugorokksu as well as a former Sega employee, about Sega's arcade machines.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qmOsZjbSUDQ; last accessed: 20260228

> 【裏話】元SEGAの西山Pとアーケード業界を支えたセガの大型筐体思い出話を語る｜スゴロックス西山泰弘さんと対談Part.1

## --

First, Okamoto-san reveals that they've been talking for about an hour before recording this video. Next, NishiP-san says that he began to create Sega machines in 2003 and he thinks that he arrived later by a generation than Okamoto-san. Further, it was a time when card games began to appear at the arcades.

At this point, Okamoto-san shares that he found a trick that could be used with these machines in order to give him more cards by using a fingernail when the card came out. NishiP-san responds that it's not a bug but a design flaw, and says that it's not a trick that home console gamers would have known.

Also, NishiP-san says that he worked in the creation of many arcade machines like, for example, a music game, and points out that during that time, there were already players who wanted to show on social media, like niconico video, videos of themselves dancing. Furthermore, NishiP-san explains that what he and his team at Sega wanted was that the visitor would have the motivation to put 100 yen into the machine to try to play the game. However, the introduction of RFID technology seems to have caused the disappearance of this excitement to play.

Okamoto-san says that many developmental changes happened, beginning with the shift from arcades to home consoles, and afterward, from consoles to mobile phones. 

NishiP-san also says that he had worked with the Sega team that created the Sakura Wars game for home consoles, although he was still given the opportunity to create an arcade game within this same team. He points out that there are elements in console games that aren't in the arcade games. Specifically, home console gamers can return to the game after saving. This element still didn't exist in arcade games. So they researched which games were popular for players and added this feature in them.

Next, Okamoto-san recounts that when he was working at studio "C," they couldn't get spots in the building that could be easily seen by visitors, because only big studios like Sega, Namco and Taito could have those good spots. In addition, Okamoto-san says that an arcade machine that cost a million yen should give the store earnings of 5 million yen, because 15% of this would be used in the following year. But given that Sega's machines were too expensive, at times, they couldn't meet this 15%. So Okamoto-san and his team had to launch arcade machines that could give 15% and more, especially, for places that weren't occupied by big studios, and which were struggling to survive.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike