https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260327/20260327PM.md; last accessed: 20260328

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The YouTube Live Video for March 27, 2026

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-28

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and team's YouTube Live Video.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KalwwE144uM; last accessed: 20260327

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ(26年3月27日)

## --

First, Okamoto-san talks about rules, not only in Japan but also in other places like the Middle East and China. He explains that in the Middle East where people believe in Islam, women are lower than pigs based on importance, such that an eight-year-old girl who's been raped gets the death penalty. Meanwhile, in China, a person who sees another person being attacked by a bear prefers not to come to help, because the court might judge that the victim was harmed, precisely because the person came.

These examples are unbelievable for Okamoto-san, who thinks that they aren't permitted in Japan.

Next, Okamoto-san shares as response to his viewers that the value of the Malaysian currency, the ringgit, has gone up recently against the US dollar. On the other hand, the US dollar's value is higher than before against Japan's. So Okamoto-san concludes that owning only Japanese yen isn't advisable these days.

Further, Okamoto-san reveals that he's sold all his Micron shares, while Tapi-san still own some, though she was initially also thinking about selling them. Okamoto-san points out that while there are people who prefer to hold onto their shares, he teaches selling them when they're expensive and buying when they're cheap, and by repeatedly doing this, people could make more money faster.

This is all. Of course, Okamoto-san has said much more in this video, but these are the important points that I'd want to share with you.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike