https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260111/20260111PM.md; last accessed: 20260112

> Stories about Health: The Importance of Digital Transformation and the Decline in the Rate of Population Growth

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-12

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the video that I just saw on the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the National University of Singapore (NUS)'s Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health (SSHSPH) back in 2024.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SVL1KrEIQOA; last accessed: 20260111

> The Singapore Population Health Studies Celebrates 20 Years of Impacting Lives 

## --

The Health Minister, Mr. Ong Ye Kung, shares with us his thoughts about the health situation in Singapore.

Mr. Ong speaks about the importance of digital transformation in order to solve health problems like diabetes. Right now, there are already mobile applications used in Singapore to collect information from the population, including their BMI and daily food intake, and which send them to a repository that can be used by medical doctors and researchers with the help of AI to create policies that, in turn, help citizens.

Furthermore, he emphasizes the value of entering data only once, and having this same data used by several hospitals and clinics. Thus, it's now so much easier and faster to study and evaluate patients' health.

At the moment, most public facilities have connected to the system, and the private ones are expected to connect as well.

Finally, I would like to say that in the Philippines, there are already experts in digital health, which also encompasses the concept of interoperability. However, it seems that it's quite difficult to implement a national system in the country. 

Meanwhile, health problems like, for instance, hypertension, which patients struggle with and are related to obesity, among others, can actually be avoided if patients could only change their lifestyle.

But since the quickest fix is to take medicine, many people choose this option. However, when they've gotten older, their livers can no longer take so much of these medicines, so they die.

In the first place, they cannot anymore change their lifestyle by adding more exercises and healthy food, because they must work and earn money immediately for their family whose members don't all make money. Furthermore, the members of their family continue to increase rapidly so that those who work always don't have enough money.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike