https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202510/20251022/20251022PM.md; last accessed: 20251023

> Life Stories from Biologist Shinichi Fukuoka: What is the meaning of time? (Second Part)

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-10-23

## Last updated: 2025-10-24T10:47

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the continuation of Biologist Shinichi Fukuoka's talk about the meaning of time.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ne19OPxAhYE; last accessed: 20251022

> 「福岡伸一の知恵の学校」第16回｜時間とは何か？

## --

In those days, before 1941, there was a man named Shuzo Kuki who wrote a book, which Fukuoka-sensei believes, also describes the same idea that Mr. Shin'ichiro Tomonaga had written about, that is, illustrations express time in a different way. 

In Shuzo-san's book, the illustrator Jericho-san had drawn in a variety of angles the horses in the EPSON horse racing track. Moreover, he drew an illustration that showed a horse with its legs extended in both the front and the back.

Later on, when camera technology had developed significantly, an experiment was conducted to capture in the actual context this scene that Jericho-san had drawn. 

So a row of cameras was arranged in order to capture the photos of the horse when it passed by and pulled a string. However, Jericho-san's illustration couldn't be found in any of the photos taken. Because of this, Jericho-san's work was criticized negatively, with people saying things like it's a fake illustration.

But Fukuoka-sensei says that it's because the experiment with the cameras was an attempt to explain something in a scientific way.

On the other hand, the illustration shows another form of looking at time, which isn't physical, by putting together a series of moments that included the past as well as the future.

Therefore, in conclusion, Fukuoka-sensei reminds us that although we now live in a technologically more advanced world, when we research the documents of people from the past, we'll discover that we cannot say that we're wiser than them.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike