https://github.com/usbong/personal/edit/main/milestone/2025/202507/20250731/20250731PM.md; last accessed: 20250801

> Clothing in Monster Hunter NOW gives the impression that it's only a game after all?!

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-07-31

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video on Monster Hunter NOW where we see him with his companions hunting down the monsters of its world. He says that if no major problem occurs, they'd be able to capture the series of monsters that would come out. Moreover, he points out that his companions are people whom he has hunted with since a long time ago.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aYkiHcY45go; last accessed: 20250731

> チーム岡本4人で難易度MAX⭐︎10モンスターに挑戦｜モンスターハンターNOW 実況 Part 72

## --

In addition, something that we can observe is that each character wears clothing of his own choosing, and I think that it means that they've already achieved high ranks. However, as with other multiplayer games, the clothing that a person chooses to wear often doesn't fit well with the rest of the team or the environment of the world. Gradually, when more members begin to make use of this type of customization, we'll then have the impression that in the end, it's only a game after all.

Finally, I'd like to share with you that my younger brother and I used to play multiplayer games on the same TV together, though we usually ended up not playing more after trying them out once or twice. Maybe it's because we didn't have the same schedule that would let us immerse ourselves into this type of games simultaneously. 

Also, after a lot of beat 'em up games had run their course, we moved on and next played games that had RPG elements. Examples of these include Secret of Mana 2 for the SNES (on PC), Lord of the Rings (LOTR): The Two Towers for the PC and Dragon's Crown for the PlayStation 3. Among these three, the second, LOTR, seems to me the one that is closest to a beat 'em up game, although during that time, I was already preparing to enter university and I couldn't really play the game as much as I'd wanted.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike