https://github.com/usbong/personal/tree/main/milestone/2025/202507/20250712/20250712.md; last accessed: 20250712

> Japan's "Digital Yen" and DIMO Japan's goal of opening automobile data to third-party developers | BPI's Plan Ahead as a gauge to measure the nation's economic state in the next five years

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-07-09

## Last updated: 2025-07-12T12:58

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you my key takeaways from Mr. Joi Ito's general meeting yesterday morning. Afterward, I'll share something about the use of BPI's Plan Ahead to assist in predicting the nation's economic standing in the coming five years.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ueQruPORwEE; last accessed: 20250712

> 【web3最新情報LIVE】7/11 weekly gm (ゲスト: DIMO Japan) | 毎週金曜10:00-11:00生配信 | 伊藤穰一 

## --

First is the news updates from Comugi-san. In particular, I'd like to highlight the part about Japan's plan concerning the "Digital Yen" system that is said to be in the process of being configured in order to link with the accounting systems of Japanese banks.

## --

https://comugico.notion.site/2025-07-11-Weekly-Roundup-gm-22dbb2341aac80aa82abfe12d3709581; last accessed: 20250712

> 見えてきた「デジタル円」のシステム構成、銀行勘定系と連係｜System Configuration of 'Digital Yen' Comes into View, Linking with Bank Accounting Systems

## --

The Nikkei News explains that while the plan isn't yet final, it's the one that is most feasible for actual implementation after four years of study. 

In addition, even though each of the key participants still has qualms about it, the plan has served as an example of a system that can process digital payments from user deposits and was the one that was presented by Mitsubishi UFJ Bank during the WG forum. 

It has four key participants: 

1) The Digital Yen user who makes use of a smartphone app, among others, to send payment requests

2) Intermediary X that manages user account information, including user identification and the display in the deduction in the deposits

3) Intermediary Y where the payment system resides. It is also here where the deposit accounts and the Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC)'s own accounts are processed to make sure that the deposits in the account match with the amount withdrawn.

4) The Japanese bank or the main system. It receives CBDC information sent by Intermediary Y during set time intervals.

## --

Next, let me share the second part of Joi-san's general meeting. The presenter, DIMO Japan, asked the question why automobiles couldn't be like smartphones where many third-party developers can develop apps using user data. 

They gave as their partner Tesla with whom they offer users promos and discounts in exchange for their data, while using Web 3 technologies like NFT and Blockchain.

Meanwhile, during the survey for the day, it was asked how the viewer would want his automobile data be used. The top two answers were to make predictions as to where the user is going and to provide information about the user's current state or condition.

## --

Finally, let me share that here in the Philippines, we can make use of certain banking products to assist us in gauging the economic state of the nation in the coming years.

For instance, BPI's Plan Ahead is currently giving out a 4% net income per annum for our deposits provided that we lock a portion of them for five years. This means that based on BPI's projection in the next five years they can give us a profit of that amount.

I think that many people fail to grasp the concept of using our savings to earn money for us. While they may understand the idea of having our money work for us instead of keeping it buried, they would open new businesses whose return in five years is either vague or substantially below the 4% net income per annum from the Plan Ahead.

Therefore, from a profit-oriented perspective, if your new business or investment can earn for you over 4% per annum in five years, then it would be wise to put your money there. However, if not, then it would be better to put it somewhere else like in BPI's Plan Ahead.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
