https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251211/20251211PM.md; last accessed: 20251212

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The problem of the huge debt of 1.7 billion yen

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-12

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the video that Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto shared with us last night. It's a video of his three years ago.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=txXjBI1lUS4; last accessed: 20251211

> 【波乱万丈】借金17億円、鬱を発症。崖っぷちに立たされても復活できたワケ

## --

In this video, he talks about the time when he struggled with the problem of the huge debt of 1.7 billion yen.

He says that during that time, he only had 300 yen to spend each day. When he needed clothes, because the ones that he had put on had already been too worn out, he had gone to the flee market to buy. There he bought several so that he would have something that could cover the clothes that he wore.

In addition, he says that although he wanted to return all the money that he had borrowed, he admits that his company Game Republic couldn't do so anymore. Because of this, he had to close it down and declare for bankruptcy.

In those days, he had thought about two ways to earn money. One is through a board game, which, he believed, could sell well. Another is to create a mobile app. Although he very much liked the first option, he decided to do the second one, because the money that Okamoto-san could earn through the former wouldn't be enough to return the money that he had borrowed. According to Okamoto-san, this type of game had a limit in the amount of money that it could make.

On the other hand, he thought that the second option was more secure, particularly based on the apps that had existed at the time and had sold very well. So he began to play mobile games in order to learn them. In particular, he had played Kaito Rowairu, a game from studio DeNA who launched it in 2009 as an app for the Mixi platform. It's about thieves who had to steal several items. However, although this game sold very well, Okamoto-san didn't like it.

Next, Dragon Collection was launched by Konami on September 14, 2010. Okamoto-san had played it in order to learn more about the mobile game industry. He believed that it was a really fun game. Moreover, despite his financial situation, Okamoto-san was still able to save 3000 or 6000 yen each month, and he used the money in the gacha of this game once or twice a month in order to grow his character. He says that he enjoyed very much playing it with other players through its versus battles.

Afterward, what appeared next was GungHo's Puzzle & Dragons. It was introduced to him by a programmer in Osaka, and his first impression was that he didn't like it.

At this point, he shares that he believed that only copying another game wouldn't give the developer the leadership position. He had been playing these games in order to learn them as well as to create his own games soon after.

Okamoto-san continues that his experiences, especially during the Super Famicom era, helped him get the chance to meet Mr. Koki Kimura, the president of Mixi. Kimura-san gave Okamoto-san the opportunity to develop the game Monster Strike, which launched in 2013. Okamoto-san thanks Kimura-san for giving him this "last chance."

Finally, Okamoto-san shares the phrase that says that to know well the enemy and yourself means that you'll encounter no danger in a hundred battles. Therefore, we should never give up. Our future is decided only by ourselves. He concludes that people who believe in these words would surely have the opportunity to change their circumstance as well.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike