https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251223/20251223PM.md; last accessed: 20251224

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: "GANG OF DRAGON," the new game from Nagoshi Studio

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-24

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about "GANG OF DRAGON," the new release from Nagoshi Studio, which is being led by Mr. Toshihiro Nagoshi, lead developer of the arcade game Daytona USA and the Like a Dragon series during the time when he had worked at Sega.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X3k1YctqgEw; last accessed: 20251223

> 名越スタジオついに新作発表！イメージ通り面白そうなビジュアルの1stトレーラーから感じたことをいくつか語らせてください

## --

First, Okamoto-san introduces Mr. Ma Dong Seok (or Don Lee), an American actor who has Korean blood and is famous for the hit film, "Shinkansen Final Express," which was released in 2016 when he was 45 years old.

Next, Okamoto-san says that, of course, data from "Like a Dragon" should remain in Sega after Nagoshi-san left to go to another studio, which is actually a Chinese one that provides online services and is called NetEase. This studio gave him funding to establish the new studio, Nagoshi Studio.

He then gathered colleagues to create the game, GANG OF DRAGON, which 80% or 90% of people had imagined that he'd develop.

Okamoto-san also emphasizes that the setting isn't in Seoul, Hong-Kong nor Singapore but in Kabukicho, Japan. Okamoto-san is disappointed by this decision, but gives two reasons.

One is because Nagoshi-san is already well-known for this setting. Another is because maybe he has the data of Kabukicho and may have used them. In particular, if these background data from Kabukichi were really used by Nagoshi-san without changing anything whatsoever, Okamoto-san thinks that it'll cause a big problem, which, however, could still be solved in many ways. Also, he says that among these, the best is that Sega itself would release the game. 

Okamoto-san explains that if they had to go to court to solve this problem, he thinks that only the lawyers would be making money. So Okamoto-san believes that getting the game released by Sega is the most profitable path for the two companies, particularly because it's really a sellable game. So if NetEase has already given 8 billion yen (80%) to Nagoshi Studio and agrees to give the rights of the game to Sega, which, for its part, would give 2 or 3 billion yen (20%), Okamoto-san thinks that it isn't a bad deal.

Moreover, they could also release the next game of the series later. Okamoto-san reveals that, in fact, Nagoshi-san is currently looking for a studio that would give him funding to do this.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike