https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20250909/20250909PM.md; last accessed: 20250910

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Famitsu's former Editor-in-Chief, Bakataar Kato, tells his life story 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-09-10

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the video from Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and his team four years ago.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fSmQ9UG_KpY; last accessed: 20250910

> 【コラボ】ファミ通元編集長にファミ通レビューの採点基準を聞いてみた(バカタール加藤さん対談)前編

## --

It's about the conversation that Okamoto-san had with Mr. Bakataaru Kato, the fourth generation Editor-in-Chief of video game news publisher Famitsu.

He says that before serving as Editor-in-Chief, there was a conflict among the publishers, including Famitsu. A publisher wanted to publish cheats and all the steps that were necessary in order to complete a game. It was something that Famitsu simply didn't do even from when it started. However, the other publisher continued to do it, and a day came when Mr. Bakataaru Kato called up their office to say that they shouldn't publish guides. However, when the following month arrived, he again found the said guides.

After again calling up the other party to tell them the same thing, Mr. Bakataaru Kato told his companions that they should immediately finish the entire game, because they'll be putting out guides in their next publication.

During that time, he says, Famitsu was facing intense competition, although it would later win and would be in a position quite distant and secure. Okamoto-san points out that the rival publisher ceded to Famitsu its number one position without fighting for a long time.

Next, Bakataaru Kato explains Famitsu's review system and the way they gave out their ratings. He says that actually, they were exploited by the studios, because they received versions of the game that still had bugs or errors, which the developers promised them that they'd fix before releasing the game. But as Mr. Okamoto has said, although the developers had the intention of fixing the bugs, they couldn't do so anymore.

Also, with respect to the ads, the studio told them what they wanted such as, for instance, the parts that had to be given focus or needed to be emphasized.

Mr. Bakataar Kato points out that they had originally wanted to analyze the games from the point of view of their creators.

But for him, he prefers to find something that the creators themselves, perhaps, didn't think about, and which could be further developed and turned into a new game, even in another genre. Further, he likes to study the path that a game, for example, had traversed as well as its outcome, because new games and genres could be imagined from these things as well. For this reason, Mr. Bakataaru Kato believes that Famitsu can continue to exist for not merely a few years but also decades longer.

At the time of the video's release, Mr. Bakataaru Kato was 55 years old. 

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike