https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260216PM.md; last accessed: 20260217

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Recommended Way to Invest

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-17

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about his recommended way to invest.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rCfhTC2yGjw; last accessed: 20260216

> 自分の収入に見合った投資の方法を考えましょう｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, he points out that we need to adjust our investments according to our income. Okamoto-san then explains that people whose average annual income is less than 1 million yen have a low income, while the rest have high income.

Next, given that Okamoto-san wants everyone to be able to retire early, he recommends a way to invest while minimizing the risk.

For people who have low income, the amount of money that they can also invest is low. Although the truth is that Okamoto-san wants us to be able to invest 100,000 up to 150,000 yen each month, if this amount is too much, Okamoto-san advises us to target companies that could earn at least 10 times using a portion of our income, even just 10% of it.

Further, although the share value of Unity is still currently low, Okamoto-san had bought shares, because he foresaw that it'll go up 10 times. Also, in the case of Jumia whose value is currently low, Okamoto-san has bought its shares, because he foresees that the value will go up 100, up to 1,000 times. So it's necessary to have the courage to invest when the value is still low, and, in addition, be able to understand that with an investment of 1 million yen, this amount could become 100 million yen.

Okamoto-san recounts that Mr. Warren Buffett himself has said that it's better to invest if we're worried that the money would be lost in another way. Also, it's better to buy the shares of companies that seem to be doing well, but whose share price is currently cheap. Finally, it's better to buy if the value of the shares has gone down without having a clear reason why or maybe due to a situation that has occurred such that all shares in the stock exchange have actually fallen. 

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that having 100 million yen means getting 400,000 yen per month, so despite inflation, among other things, he thinks that this method is the best way to retire early.

Since Okamoto-san has also advised us to write our comments, I'd like to say that, in my opinion, it's incredible that there are people whose annual income is less than 1 million yen in Japan. Further, 1 million is twice of 500,000 yen, and, in fact, in the Philippines, 500,000 yen each year is the annual income threshold, which when a person exceeds by receiving a higher income, he should already pay income taxes to the government. Also, I liked the idea of investing 1 million yen that could later become 100 million yen, if only it were possible that we didn't actually have to wait for 30 or more years.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike