https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260322/20260322PM.md; last accessed: 20260323

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The continuation of the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious" (Part 2-2)

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-23

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Part 2-2 of the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious." 

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Whjc8J9REN0; last accessed: 20260322

> 【まるでアスリート】ゲーセン狂いの高校受験理由がヤバすぎる｜マトリックス大堀康祐さん対談Part.2

## --

First, Ohori-san says that Kabukicho, a sacred place for arcade games, actually had a shady atmosphere. Okamoto-san clarifies that it's been like that even up to now. Still, Ohori-san explains that when the tests called Location Tests were taking place, he had gone to visit each arcade area in Kabukicho. Okamoto-san, for his part, recounts that he had already been notified about which areas beforehand when he visited, but since Ohori-san still didn't have this information, he had to do the task without it.

However, Ohori-san reveals that little by little he discovered that it was possible to know which places were doing the test. For example, the guide that explained the game was written by hand. Okamoto-san explains that, in general, developers used a part of the area at the arcade to put new games.

Next, Okamoto-san asks Ohori-san if he didn't want to formally enter the industry other than play games. He answers that at the time, there were still no specialized schools for video games, nor information on how to create them, unlike during this current age of the internet. Still, whenever a new game was released, he'd feel very excited to try it out. He also reiterates that he wanted to meet friends through video games.

Ohori-san also says that in Kabukicho, there was a huge arcade game center in a place called Stardust, which was on the other side of the Yasukuni Street. There he discovered that people had begun to list down the players' high scores. This list was in a vacant part of the game machine and which names, contact information as well as their scores were written.

Further, Ohori-san introduces a Tokyo News Telco magazine called "VIDEO COLLECTION," which was a guide for TV shows, although it also had information about videos that were being sold. Ohori-san also points out that inside he found that information about both arcade games in Tokyo and the high scores for some of the games were available to readers. Furthermore, Ohori-san recounts that he had called up the company in order to get more information about those places in Tokyo and to put his own points on the magazine after visiting the arcades. He admits that he could only attain the highest scores two or three times.

This is all. I end here this part of the conversation between Okamoto-san and Ohori-san. 

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike