https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20250924/20250924PM.md; last accessed: 20250925

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Things to improve in Monster Hunter Now

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-09-25

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's new talk about Monster Hunter Now.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y1hKOavNA-8; last accessed: 20250925

> [Improvements Requested] We would like the God Management of Monster Hunter Now to review these p...

## --

First, he thanks the company that made the game for creating something extraordinarily spectacular.

Next, he points out some parts of the game that, he believes, can be improved. 

For example, he says that he's found a bug that prevents more players from coming to hunt with the two who've already entered a specific location and are currently waiting for the battle to begin.

In addition, during the battle itself, sometimes the player ends up pressing inadvertently the button to leave so that the rest of the players would have to fight against a powerful monster by themselves, and Okamoto-san predicts that they'd, of course, not win.

Also, he wants the high ranking Hunter and the defeated monster's "tail" item to have a clear connection in the game. He says that it's better that the player would exclaim that he's obtained the tail, instead of thinking that it's only something extra and isn't significant at all. He observes that it's the same idea that he wants for items like the dog's claw or the bird's skin as well.

Next, he says that the item box is still too small; he had wanted to make it larger to be able to put more items inside.

Finally, he explains that players would quit the game when they feel stressed out. Therefore, developers should design the game so that player would be able to continue playing with gusto.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike