https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260506/20260506PM.md; last accessed: 20260507

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Health

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-07

## Last updated: 2026-05-08

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about health.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jk0lLHB1Ces; last accessed: 20260506

> 岡本吉起、健康体を目指して｜岡本吉起塾ch

## --

Okamoto-san announces that he's decided to seriously think about this topic, especially since he's now 64 years old.

One thing that he's started in order to improve his health is to walk. He reveals that his doctor for diabetes has advised him to walk for half an hour or up to 50 minutes per day. Furthermore, Okamoto-san shares that he has a colleague who takes walking seriously and with whom he had walked before in the past, so after this encounter,  Okamoto-san wants to take walking seriously as well.

However, Okamoto-san clarifies that he walks in a relaxed manner in order to protect his knees. In addition, he does around 14.000 steps per day, even though his goal is to reach only 7.000 steps per day. He explains that after reaching 7.000, the next ones are more relaxed. He also says that if his goal is too challenging, he'll not want to achieve it.

Next, Okamoto-san points out that he does light muscle exercises once or twice per day in his gym at his house where there's air-conditioning, and while he watches YouTube videos. He explains that he does them in a very relaxed manner in order to no quit after only a few months.

Okamoto-san also emphasizes food in which he has two things that he wants to tell us. One is that he focuses on the way he eats, that is, he doesn't eat very quickly unlike before. More specifically, he puts the chopsticks down every time he's chewing his food. Further, as a result, the amount of food that he eats for breakfast has gone down. The second thing about food is that Okamoto-san focuses on the food itself. So he eats foods low in sugar. He says that for breakfast, he was previously eating food such as genmai rice, natto, kimchi, miso shiru and cooked fish. Moreover, for lunch, he was eating broccoli with chicken breast meat as well as boiled egg. This time around, because he wants to eat less oily food, including the mayonnaise that he likes so much, he's been gradually reducing these ingredients in his daily meals.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that he only has a year and a few months left before his retirement, so he wants to strive in this aspect of health. He also wants us to accompany him in dieting.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
