https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20251001/20251001PM.md; last accessed: 20251002

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The LABUBU toy and the small Hawker stalls 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-10-02

## Last updated: 2025-10-03T10:56

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about "LABUBU," a character that was created by a designer from China, specifically, Hong-Kong.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QOcJCjuB4LA; last accessed: 20251002

> Why has the globally popular "LABUBU" sold so well? Thoughts on Pop Mart's sales strategy | Okamo...

## --

First, Okamoto-san admits that he doesn't believe that LABUBU is cute. But since Ms. Lisa of BLACKPINK and Mr. Beckham, the sports athlete, said that they like the character, many more people began to take an interest in it as well.

Moreover, Okamoto-san says that a toy from POP MART could cost more than 2,000 yen (approx. 1,000 PHP), but the most expensive and the largest, which reached around 30 cm, had been bought for 20 million yen in China. So it's a valuable character, because it's like CASIO's GSHOCK or NIKE's AIRMAX in Japan in that it's said that if you don't have it, you're not with us.

Okamoto-san also explains the concept of the blind box, which is like packs of cards or gachas wherein the buyer doesn't know which special item is inside the box. So the person would buy more to obtain what he wants or to complete all the items.

With respect to the shares of its company, POP MART, Okamoto-san still doesn't own one nor want to buy one. He thinks that, in general, as in this case as well, a fad passes for only six months. However, he foresees that afterward, more products that make use of the brand like LABUBU anime, among others, will be launched. This is why it's assumed that the value of the shares will go up through the years.

Finally, Okamoto-san wondered if even now Ms. Lisa of BLACKPINK likes LABUBU or not.

Before I close, I'd like to share with you the news from Zaobao about the small stalls operated by the vendors called Hawkers.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXKG_7q9p7c; last accessed: 20251002

> [ENG SUB] 社企小贩有多难做？Challenges facing socially-conscious enterprise hawkers 

## --

In particular, I want to emphasize the part where the vendors say that they lower the prices via discounts and promotions of up to 5 or 10% so that the food would cost only 2.90 SGD. He explains that these "budget meals" were created so as to invite people to come to the stalls and try out their food. But actually the stall doesn't earn money from these cheap prices, which reminded me of the prices of the food in the National University of Singapore (NUS) when I visited the place in 2014.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike