https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20250916/20250916PM.md; last accessed: 20250917

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Nintendo relaunches the Virtual Boy for Switch and Switch 2

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-09-17

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the relaunching of the Virtual Boy.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a0kS9ADLw54; last accessed: 20250917

> Nintendo Direct Review (Memories of the Virtual Boy) 

## --

He says that when the Nintendo console first came out, it had cost 10,000 yen (approx. 5,000 PHP), although the games were cheap at 100 yen (approx. 50 PHP) each. Okamoto-san bought the console and the games, but he immediately found that the there were several copies of the same game inside the box. He had thought that it would have a varied library of games. Moreover, he found it quite inconvenient to play the console, even though Okamoto-san had at first been very excited to play with it.

This time, however, the games of the console will be playable on Switch, Switch EL and Switch 2. Also, several devices usable with the Virtual Boy will be put on sale. For example, there will be a paper model of Virtual Boy at 2,980 yen (approx. 1,490). It will be out on the 17th of February 2026. 

On the other hand, the Virtual Boy itself will cost 9,980 yen and will be out on the same date. Both will be available for purchase on the Nintendo Switch Online, and Okamoto-san says that he's buying them.

Finally, Okamoto-san wants us to write our comments about the Virtual Boy and the memories that we have of it.

What I can remember as the most well-known Virtual Boy game based on the reports from the magazines at the time is the tennis game with Mario.

I think that it was the core of the tennis game that I liked a lot for the Nintendo 64. I had previously tried out the first version for the Game Boy, and I remember that my classmate from high school really liked this game, which also had a multiplayer mode.

I think that it's because he had discovered a trick to always win like in Tic-Tac-Toe. More recently, when I tried Sega's Virtua Tennis for mobile, it seemed to me that the AI was too omniscient.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike