https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V4zCin91fPY

> 【ついにリリース】金子一馬さん完全新作コロプラ『神魔狩りのツクヨミ』が気になる#ProjectMASK 

Dear friends,

Tonight, Mr. Yoshiki OKAMOTO has news for us regarding Mr. Kazuma KANEKO of Kuropura and their team's newly released game called, "Jinma Kari no Tsukuyomi." Afterward, Mr. OKAMOTO shares with us his thoughts as well as his expectation from this new release.

First, Mr. KANEKO is a Game Producer and Character Designer of well-known titles like "Shin Megami Tensei" and "Persona."

Moreover, given that their new project uses the word, "Mask," Mr. OKAMOTO thinks that the game is about masks and imagines that players can acquire a variety of masks and switch between them, so that they could use certain abilities during battles. 

However, the truth is that the game's completely different from what he imagined. When the development team of "Kuroneko (Black Cat)" started the new project, they called it "Shironeko (White Cat)." Later on, they changed the project's name to "Project MASK."

Looking at the gameplay footages, it appears to be a mobile game that employs several varieties of cards that could be used during battles. Moreover, it gives us the impression that it's a well-made game that uses high-quality illustrations and effects.

Mr. OKAMOTO says that Mr. KANEKO currently has 300,000 fans, and if even only 30% of them, amounting to 90,000, would download the game, their company could already make a profit. This is why Mr. OKAMOTO expects a great deal out of this project and hopes for its success.

This is all.

Thank you, good night!

Regards,

Mike
