https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/2025/202505/20250508.md; last accessed: 20250507

> The sword that paralyzes enemies and the point of making donations according to the leaders of philanthropy

> Writer

[Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date

2025-05-08

## --

Dear friends,

A couple of days ago, Mr. Yoshiki OKAMOTO shared with us new gameplay footages of Monster Hunter NOW.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bT3ucYJNbII; last accessed: 20250507

> 今からモンハンNOW初める方が最初に作るべきおすすめ武器｜モンスターハンターNOW 実況 Part 61

## --

This time, he's gone out to hunt the monsters that inhabit its world with Ms. ocome and later hunterE who, Mr. OKAMOTO says, is an experienced gamer. Moreover, Mr. OKAMOTO has brought a sword that adds a paralysis type of effect, so that their team could easily win. This seems to be a technique geared especially toward new hunters.

Next, I'd like to share with you the video from the Philanthropy Asia Summit 2025, where we can listen to Bill Gates and Tharman Shanmugartnam about the current state of the world in the context of Philanthropy, and what they intend to do. They said that they intend to continue helping governments become more efficient in the collection and computation of taxes. The goal of which is for governments to eventually become independent from being merely recipients of donations.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TchCCgLS7wk; last accessed: 20250507

> In Conversation with President Tharman and Bill Gates | Philanthropy Asia Summit 2025 

## --

Afterward, perhaps there'll be people just like myself who'd want to ask how countries could have enough money that can be taxed by the government. Furthermore, if we were to continue with this line of thought, perhaps, we'd also come up with the idea that food is a necessity. Even if the majority of people don't have money, we find that they still do have the time to do certain things, such as planting crops, among other tasks. These are things that other people, particularly older people, cannot anymore do. But since older people have money, they can exchange it with those who have the time but not the money. Thus, it is in this way that time can be turned into money. In addition, we find that the people who can save money would also have enough of it to give to the government in order to help the community.

However, as can be seen in the case here in the Philippines, the majority of people cannot save money at all. They have too many children, which is why they also have too many expenses. Actually, what they want is to have sex, but they don't know how to do it without giving birth to children. They also don't have anyone nearby whom they can sincerely ask, so that they can only try hearsay or whatever notion that comes to mind without success.

Therefore, wisdom in health is also essential.

Bill adds that their team has spent and still continues to spend money on vaccine research, which reduces the number of people dying from diseases, thereby reminding us that prolonging life is everyone's goal.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
