https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TIbVJCWmnIw

> リモートワーク時代到来！10年後オフィスの価格はどう変わる？|岡本吉起塾ch

Dear friends,

Tonight, we're currently experiencing heavy rainfall here in this part of Marikina City.

Regardless, let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki OKAMOTO's new lecture on remote work and what his thoughts are regarding the changing value of the office workspace. He explains that since people wouldn't need to come to the office anymore, they'll have more time to spend with their family, and even live in an island in Okinawa. From Mr. OKAMOTO's point of view, there's less reason for a big office to exist anymore. He adds that while during COVID-19, many companies had trouble at the start getting their employees working in separate locations to communicate. However, he says that right now, in the video games industry where he's at, work can still move forward fairly well despite this type of work arrangement.

Next, I'd like to share with you some of the things that my family and I talk about. In particular, it's with regard to the topic about going on a trip to Japan or somewhere abroad. I think that if we're traveling just to eat the local food, then there are already plenty of restaurants here that serve Japanese food and such dishes without our having to spend so much money to pay for the airplane ticket and the hotel, among other expenses. Perhaps because I exercise everyday, I'd think that it may be better if there were a stadium that could attract visitors for its high-tech training equipment that's not yet available here in the Philippines. But maybe a clean, olympic-sized swimming pool, without too many people using it, could also be enough. But that's something that we also already have here. In the end, perhaps Konami may know something about this sort of thing too.

This is all.

Thank you, good night!

Regards,

Mike
