https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7J0PCPUdne0

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ(25年5月9日)

Dear friends,

Tonight, Mr. Yoshiki OKAMOTO has shared with us in a YouTube Live video his thoughts on the topic, "Local Travel in Japan."

He gives us some of the things that he has done in the past or those that he'd want to do when traveling locally in Japan in order to relax. He says that there are two essentials things that we ought to keep in mind. The first is food, and the second is the scenery.

According to Mr. OKAMOTO, when he was working at Capcom, his team would go out once a month to a place in Kansai where they could do things like practice riding the bicycle (charinko), go out on picnics, and sleep inside the car. They'd do this sort of thing for three days before coming back for work the following day, which is a Monday.

Mr. OKAMOTO also tell us about a place in Kyoto called "Miyami-cho," where the people there were said to have decided that their town would never ever change, so that even up to now, the place has a distinct feel to it that evokes a sense of closeness to nature. However, Mr. OKAMOTO says that during a visit there, it occurred to him that the place isn't anymore Kyoto.

Of course, there are many more tourist spots that Mr. OKAMOTO shared with us this evening, but what I'd like to focus on is the type of leisurely trip that Japanese people would have in mind when asked about it. 

This time we have Mr. OKAMOTO who gave us his example. From the words that he used, for instance, tuna, steak (or yakiniku), and soba, we find that these are the food that he'd enjoy when going out on trips. 

The last, which is the "soba," was something that I thought was rather plain, but since we're also adding in the natural scenery, and the idea that visitors can also enjoy the hot springs, including the "rotenburo (outdoor hot springs)," then it would indeed be an amazing experience for anyone.

This is all.

Thank you, good night!

Regards,

Mike
