https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zRrwnBBZcAY

> 「ゲーム業界を引退する決断をした理由」ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起の本音は…｜岡本吉起塾Ch

Dear friends,

Tonight, Mr. Yoshiki OKAMOTO gives us his five reasons why he's retiring from the video games industry once he reaches 66 years old.

First, he says that by this coming June, 44 years would have passed since he started his career in the industry, and he admits that he'd want to remain in this field making games if possible.

However, he has noticed that there's a limit to what he can do due to his age. This is why he tells us that his second reason for leaving the industry is that he intends to face his last moments in a way that is akin to the samurai in that the act is pure.

Thus, he has decided to stop bringing inappropriate ideas to projects where people so much younger than himself work, so that they'd have the chance to also succeed.

Fourth, he says that he wants to travel the world. For instance, he wants to live in France for a month, then move to another country. He wants to experience that sort of life. He adds that going on a cruise around the world would cost 40 to 50 million yen per person.

Finally, after retiring, he understands that he won't be able to come back to the video games industry anymore, and he explains that this is because he'd be in his 70's already by that time. This means that if a person has something that he'd want to do, even more than making games, then once he goes out to actually do it, his career in the video games industry is over.

This is all.

Thank you, good night!

Regards,

Mike
