https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/2025/202505/20250526.md; last accessed: 20250526

> "Monster Street" and OkanP's style of music creation | Talking about arcade games from the 90's like Snow Bros. and Street Fighter 

> Writer

[Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date

2025-05-26

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you a short video that Ms. OkanP, along with Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto, has made to show us how she could quickly compose a tune for the game, "Monster Street."

## --

https://www.youtube.com/shorts/PwMS5Rshs-c; last accessed: 20250525

> 【BIGコラボ】スト2・モンストを生み出した怪物P岡本吉起降臨✨モンスターストライクみたいな曲作れる？#おかんp #モンスターストライク #モンスト #streetfighter2 

## --

Speaking of games, let me also share with you something about "[SNOW BROS. 2 SPECIAL](https://store.steampowered.com/app/2340640/SNOW_BROS_2_SPECIAL/)," whose demo could already be freely downloaded on Steam.

When I was still in high school in the 2000's, my family and I would go to SM Megamall to have dinner after visiting our grandmother. It was there at the mall where I saw the first version of the Snow. Bros. game.

I also noticed that there were arcade games like "Street Fighter: The Movie" and "Pacman 3D (Isometric)" that other places didn't have and could only be found there.

Yet I never played an Arcade game there on the ground floor. Perhaps it was because my impression was that their arcade joysticks didn't work well, even though I also saw that they had personnel walking around to fix any problems that customers might have.

Or, it could be because the ambiance of the place invited too many people, which included even the pickpockets.

But I do remember an instance when I did play at SM Megamall. It was in an arcade a floor above the one where National Bookstore was. A "Street Fighter III" arcade machine had been put in front, and a Japanese man was playing the game by himself.

By that time, I had already experienced winning at the arcades, though I still couldn't win in Street Fighter III. 

I saw that the man had several coins already put out for people to see that he could play longer and continuously. Even during that time, prices in the Philippines were markedly lower than in Japan.

This afternoon, I played [Street Fighter III: Third Strike](https://store.steampowered.com/app/586200/Street_Fighter_30th_Anniversary_Collection/) on Steam. I was attempting to do a video recording, but errors kept on appearing that I ended up playing much longer than I had intended. 

The longer play time did, however, remind me that Ryu is better than Ken for me. I thought that this could be why I didn't win with Ken at the arcades. It was the early 2000's when Street Fighter III hadn't been released yet on the PlayStation 2.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
