https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-WvQtXQrsxc

> 【衝撃の当選倍率】Nintendo Switch 2の公式ストア抽選に220万人が応募！当選数はどのくらい確保されてるの？

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRX3Gm-YPRY

> Avril Lavigne - Young & Dumb (feat. Simple Plan) (Official Video) 

Dear friends

Tonight, I have two pieces of news for you. The first one is about Mr. Yoshiki OKAMOTO's talk on the new Nintendo Switch 2, and the other is the new music video from Avril LAVIGNE.

In Mr. OKAMOTO's talk, we learn that Nintendo organized a lottery so that Japanese players could have the chance to win the company's new console, the Nintendo Switch 2. However, while there were 2.2 million people who participated, the said company could only prepare 350,000 consoles. This is why Mr. OKAMOTO mused that if there were still a factory in Japan that could continue to produce more of the consoles, then maybe there'd be enough so that he himself could get one. Mr. OKAMOTO says that there were also several famous artists who joined the lottery, but none of them received a console. As to the large number of participants, Mr. OKAMOTO explains that sometimes a person would buy the new Nintendo Switch 2 console in order to play the games of the first generation Nintendo Switch.

Finally, I'd like to share with you my thoughts on the new video from Avril. My impression is that if high school students could listen to this song in the car radio as they're going to school in the morning, then the song would stick and would be a huge hit. In the Philippines, "sk8terboi" quickly reached the top 10, but only for a few weeks. I think that this new song is so much better than "sk8terboi."

This is all.

Thank you, good night!

Regards,

Mike
