https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/2025/202505/20250517PM.md; last accessed: 20250518

> 1) Internet connection error at the workplace, 2) Nintendo's marketing strategy for the Switch 2 as explained by Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto

> Writer

[Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date

2025-05-17

## --

Dear friends,

Tonight, I have two pieces of news for you. The first is about the internet connection problem that we had today, and the second is the talk by Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto on Nintendo's new console.

Today, I had to restart the PLDT router three times. PLDT, by the way, is our ISP (Internet Service Provider). Now I don't know if people in other places also experienced this same problem, but the situation actually reached us at the workplace.

Despite this, I was also able to better understand the idea that within the source code that is available locally in our network, we could search for functions or syntax-related examples that we could use in our target language like Javascript or PHP, without having to access the internet at all. I think that this part is crucial especially during times of disasters.

Next, with regard to Mr. Okamoto's talk, it's actually a continuation of his lecture yesterday on the Nintendo Switch 2.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0TYVdq2X-bg; last accessed: 20250517

> 「ユーザーに行き渡るのは1年以上先？」争奪過熱のNintendo Switch2流通予測に思うこと

## --

Since there are more people who want the new console than there is available, those who can get hold of one would surely feel elated. Actually, Mr. Okamoto explains that this is a type of marketing strategy used by Nintendo to raise the value of its products.

Somehow, I was reminded of the PlayStation 2. Back during the early 2000's, our household had one, even though we didn't play it as much. If our Street Fighter Zero 3 disc wouldn't run in it, which at times it didn't, we'd play Street Fighter III: Third Strike instead. At the time, our PlayStation had already broken down, and the repair shop we visited said that it was due to the lens. I think that the reason why we bought the PlayStation 2 in the first place is because it was the successor to the PlayStation, even if we didn't really like the PlayStation 2 games that came out as much.

Finally, as to the question concerning why there are households that buy new video game consoles, I think that the games, the software that we could enjoy with it, would, of course, play a huge factor.

This is all.

Thank you, good night!

Regards,

Mike
