https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bT3ucYJNbII

> 今からモンハンNOW初める方が最初に作るべきおすすめ武器｜モンスターハンターNOW 実況 Part 61

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TchCCgLS7wk

> In Conversation with President Tharman and Bill Gates | Philanthropy Asia Summit 2025 

Dear friends,

Tonight, Mr. Yoshiki OKAMOTO has launched a new video on Monster Hunter NOW. This time, he is joined by Ms. ocome and Mr. hunterE who, Mr. OKAMOTO says, is an experienced player. Also, Mr. OKAMOTO is using a sword that has the paralysis effect, and we may say that this is one of the techniques that new players can use to win rather easily.

Next, I'd like to speak about the Philanthropy Asia Summit 2025, where Bill Gates and President Tharman Shanmugartnam share with us the current global situation and what they're presently doing to address the world's problems. In a nutshell, they're helping governments with the efficient and systematic collection and computation of taxes. Furthermore, their objective is for governments to not be dependent on donations. We may, however, ask how the people could have enough money that the government can tax a percentage of in the first place. If we continue with this line of thought, perhaps we may end up with the idea of food. While the majority of people don't have money, they do have the time to do things like planting crops, which old people can't anymore do. Aside from this, Bill emphasized the importance of health, and that the expenses incurred in the development of vaccines are eventually recuperated through the reduction in the number of people dying from diseases.

This is all.

Of course, there are many more things that I haven't said, but I'll need to stop here already.

Thank you, and good night!

Regards,

Mike
