https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cOBoqQCcRTQ

> “**** remake?” “**** sequel?” "Capcom -- Please leave it to me! Comment Reply Part 11!

Dear friends,

Tonight, it appears that Mr. Yoshiki OKAMOTO won't be uploading a new video, but, as always, we do have plenty from YouTube.

Also, I've noticed that I prefer to watch videos from Japan, even if there are many others, such as the talk by Luis Von Ahn at Stanford Graduate School of Business and the AI Ascent 2025 presentation from Sequoia Capital. Perhaps it's because I've already understood the idea that the concept of startups in the U.S. had been created so that young people from affluence could learn to work and understand its value.

Thus it is in this regard that I'd now like to share with you the new video from Mr. Hideki KAMIYA, who shares with us his answers to several of the questions that came from his audience.

For example, why did he make the ending of Bayonetta 3 go in that particular direction? 

According to Mr. KAMIYA, when he was creating Bayonetta, he was already using an outline in the story that let him continue it after the current one ended. In addition, he put in the story concepts such as the Multiverse and Singularity, because perhaps when he launched the series' first Bayonetta in 2007, people at the time were already talking about the concept of multiverses.

Also, Mr. KAMIYA spoke about the "Seressa and the Little Lost Devil," which is a spin-off from Bayonetta. He adds that he worked with a colleague named Tinary to create the game, although Tinary has since left the team and has gone on to work on other things. Still, he says that in the story of this spin-off, the protagonist in Bayonetta makes an appearance as a young girl.

Finally, Mr. KAMIYA would like to work again on his past titles such as "Viewtiful Joe" and "Devil May Cry" if Capcom would let him.

This is all.

Thank you, good night!

Regards,

Mike
