https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mQrEKgVvdzY

> 【意外すぎる】GTA3やカタンの国内販売権を取得することになったきっかけは？｜岡本吉起塾Ch 

Dear friends,

Tonight, Mr. Yoshiki OKAMOTO is sharing with us a story he has back when he was still at Capcom where he discovered something so amazing that he believes that people who hear about it would find it useful too.

He says that while still working at Capcom, he was sent to the U.S. to expand their company's overseas market. Upon arrival, one particular coffee shop caught his attention. He explains that it was because every time he and his colleagues finished eating lunch, they'd go to the said place to drink coffee. That coffee shop's name is Starbucks.

Up until that point, he had mostly been focusing on his own development capability, but he found out that he could also bring that coffee shop or whatever product it may be to Japan. For Mr. OKAMOTO, it was an amazing discovery.

This is why he worked on getting the licenses of a number of games to sell to the Japanese market. For instance, he was able to get hold of the licenses for Diablo II, GTA III and Catan. He says that if the product is really good, there will definitely be buyers in Japan.

Speaking from my own point of view, I think that since the vendors in Japan would be Japanese, the people who'll be making money will also be Japanese. But along with this, the name of the American or whichever country the company may be from would gain the attention and recognition of the Japanese people. To give an example, we can think of IBM and Fujitsu, which have offices in Japan. Since we're talking about the Japanese market, of course, we can expect that the winning company between the two would be Fujitsu.

This is all.

Thank you, good night!

Regards,

Mike
