https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260308PM.md; last accessed: 20260309

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Thoughts about the "Epstein" Incident

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-09

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video about his thoughts on the "Epstein" incident.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W6W0bCaTz14; last accessed: 20260308

> 話題のエプスタイン事件の闇について岡本の思うことをお話しします。｜岡本吉起塾ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san admits that he worried whether or not he'd say something about this topic, but, in the end, he decided to record this video.

Okamoto-san explains that Mr. Jeffrey Epstein was an American who committed suicide in 2019. Furthermore, it's said that he had assets amounting to 80 billion yen, owning an island and a private jet, among other things.

Next, Okamoto-san enumerates two reasons why Mr. Epstein had been involved in this incident.

One is that he was guilty of sexual abuse of girls. In 2006, he had been arrested in Florida for this case. Okamoto-san also points out that, for some reason, he was able to get out of jail in 13 months, instead of 18. Further, he was allowed to work at the office for six days a week, 12 hours each day. According to Okamoto-san, this means that he was given considerable freedom despite the severity of his case.

Okamoto-san explains that Mr. Epstein's job was as a manager who handled assets for the super-rich. This is why Okamoto-san points out the possibility that he was using undisclosed information to make his investments.

The second reason why Mr. Esptein was implicated in this incident is that until 2019 when he committed suicide, he had been associated with many famous people including former President Bill Clinton and Mr. Bill Gates.

Further, when US President Donald Trump began to run for office for the second time, Mr. Trump said that he would reveal the Epstein files to the public. In fact, more than 10 years ago, there were already several rumors about Mr. Epstein, who was said to eat people. However, while Mr. Trump had opened the 3-million-page file to the public, the names of the girls as well as their photos were covered. Also, it's said that in Epstein's island, thousands of girls were called to come to parties, in which some were killed.

Next, Okamoto-san reveals that he thinks that Mr. Epstein's suicide is odd, because his neck was broken in a very complex way, and, in addition, the surveillance camera had been broken when the incident occurred.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes with a question that supposes that, perhaps, Mr. Epstein was murdered both for doing the aforementioned things like Japan's Mr. Motakuto who was a womanizer, and for being associated with famous people.

This is all. 

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike