https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202607/20260715/20260715PM.md; last accessed: 20260716

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The price of luxury watch "Grand Seiko" is expected to go up soon

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-07-16

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the the luxury watch, "Grand Seiko," whose price is expected to go up soon.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZFF7BNvXQiI; last accessed: 20260715

> 高級腕時計ブランド『グランドセイコー』が一斉値上げ！｜岡本吉起塾ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san explains that he's returned to Malaysia after being in Japan for five weeks due to his trip in the ASUKA III cruise as well as his work in Shibuya. He also feels that he's again going to have to get used to living in Malaysia, informing us that it actually just rained a lot a while ago.

Next, Okamoto-san recounts that in the 1965s, watch company Seiko was able to release a line of luxury watches that could sell together with Swiss watches. Therefore, people like himself began to want these watches, and, in fact, Okamoto-san collects them and puts them in his collection. Furthermore, he wears one that for almost a year he hasn't taken off at all even when he takes a bath or sleeps.

In continuation, among the models of the new watch Grand Seiko, there's one called "White Gold" that costs 8.8 million with a value that is projected to rise by 3.85 million yen. Okamoto-san admits that, in the beginning, he didn't want to buy it, but after hearing about the projection that it'll be valued more by 3.85 million yen, he's decided to buy one.

Okamoto-san also explains that if he has to choose between watch or car, he'd choose the former, because the cars in Malaysia cost more than double of those in Japan due to tariffs. In addition, the roads sometimes aren't suitable for luxury cars. Thus, he advises that the watch and the house are the most profitable for him at the moment.

Finally, Okamoto-san shares with us that the reason why in the lineup of Grand Seiko watches is expected to cost so much more. He says that it's due to Mr. Shohei Ohtani, the currently very popular baseball athlete, and according to reports, he's given Grand Seiko watches to his Dodgers teammates and staff members during the previous season. Further, Okamoto-san recounts that the Grand Seiko model that Ohtani-san wears isn't anymore sold in the market nor in the second-hand market. As a result, his watch now costs very much.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
