https://github.com/usbong/personal/tree/main/milestone/2025/202508/20250815/20250815PM.md; last accessed: 20250816

> FIRE: The recommended steps to retire early and be financially independent

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-08-16

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Ms. Tapi's talk on "FIRE," in particular, their recommended steps to retire early and be financially independent.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XqVgGZ4ON7c; last accessed: 20250816

> ※1.5時間SP！ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ：Forbesの「経済的自立と早期リタイア「FIRE」を実現するため、今日から始めるべき習慣17選」に相乗りしてみた

## --

But first, Okamoto-san explains that he's returned to Malaysia after getting admitted to the hospital for three nights. He says that he had a bacteria from Africa that needed to be eliminated. Right now, there are a few that are still left inside his body, and we can see that he coughs from time to time in his live video.

Next, he points out that he's found that students, who had been intelligent in school, don't get to be so success later on in life. It seems to him that as his teacher had said during that time, it's actually important to be slightly mischievous, because despite everything, he and his friends have been able to achieve great success.

In addition, he says that it's essential to know how much money a person would need in order to live comfortably. Ms. Tapi answers that for her, she'd need 300,000 yen per month. This means that she needs at least 90 million yen so that even though she doesn't put in as much effort in her job, money works for her and the income she receives from it is enough.

With this amount as the goal, Okamoto-san again advises people to invest in the S&P where profit adds up to 8.5% in the long run, although he reveals that he doesn't do this online, but receives advice from four people who tell him their forecasts. And then, from the information they give, Okamoto-san decides on what he'll do.

On the other hand, Ms. Tapi uses the S&P platform online, admitting that it wasn't easy to learn at the start. Also, Okamoto-san says that Ms. Tapi began investing in her thirties, and we know, of course, that it's better to begin earlier.

In my opinion, a person needs at the minimum 20 years to invest so that he'll have enough money to live comfortably in terms of passive income.

Moreover, I think that if the person is in a hurry, buying stocks when they're valued higher than zero dollars in an extremely volatile market is dangerously risky. The timing to buy and sell seems simple in principle, but people also have to consider the lag that occurs before the transaction is completed, as well as the taxes that ought to be paid to the government, among others.

Finally, it appears to me that when the person gets used to living without spending too much, after 20 years, he'll find that he already has enough money for his style of life.

However, we know that many young people will not agree to reducing their expenses, because they want a lifestyle that depends on the current wealth of their parents. 

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike