https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202606/20260621/20260621PM.md; last accessed: 20260622

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Events After Tokuro Fujiwara Left Capcom

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-06-22

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture five years ago about what happened after Mr. Tokuro Fujiwara left Capcom.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5eEe2m2eTlI; last accessed: 20260621

> 【魔界村生みの親】大ヒットメーカー藤原得郎氏がカプコンを辞めた後に起こった悲劇

## --

Okamoto-san recounts that the truth is that he himself wanted to leave Capcom, but while he had conveyed his desire to Capcom's president, Mr. Kenzo Tsujimoto, in the end, Tsujimoto-san first approved the departure of Fujiwara-san, who conveyed his own desire just before finishing the game, Resident Evil.

Okamoto-san admits that during that time, he was still negotiating with Tsujimoto-san when he could leave the studio, and given that, according to Tsujimoto-san, Fujiwara-san, who was one of Capcom's first employees since the studio's beginning, was very stubborn, he approved the latter's desire.

Okamoto-san, for his part, agreed with Tsujimoto-san's decision given two conditions.

One is that he wanted, at least, 2 million yen each month as salary, explaining that it's because he would work for two divisions: arcades as well as consoles. He also mentions that he actually wanted more that the said amount, and reveals that he was able to obtain what he really wanted in the end.

Next is that the studio would end interviews with magazines. Okamoto-san explains that he was very frustrated seeing that Mr. Akira Nishitani, the creator of Street Fighter II, was using more time to negotiate with the magazines than other tasks, such that, as a result, the quality of the projects was going down. This decision created, in fact, outburts from the magazines for the studio, but Okamotos-an kept the importance of this condition.

Finally, Okamoto-san wanted to leave Capcom, because for many years since the studio's establishment, they were creating games in 2D, and, while Capcom's arrival to the world of 3D was slow, he felt that it was already the best time to leave after entering 3D through Resident Evil. However, as what we heard, Okamoto-san would continue working in the studio much longer.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
