https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260219PM.md; last accessed: 20260220

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: A Bad Situation Encountered after Leaving Capcom

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-20

## --

Dear friends,

Today, I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture two years ago.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MEzIMweRPEw; last accessed: 20260219

> すれ違いざまに元カプコンの後輩Pに笑われてしまい…カプコン退職後に遭遇した酷い出来事｜岡本吉起塾Ch 

## --

I think the video appeared in my YouTube's recommendations list yesterday morning, and when I tried listening to it, I thought that it was interesting.

It's about a question to Okamoto-san about a bad situation that he encountered after leaving Capcom.

This time, what I'd like to focus on is the part about the bank where Okamoto-san went to in order to explain his situation that resulted in a debt of 1.7 billion yen.

Okamoto-san points out that there's a phrase, which, he thinks, describes well the bank: When the weather is good, the bank lends people an umbrella, but when the rains come, it takes it back.

In Okamoto-san's case, he had to return the money that he had borrowed from the bank precisely during the time when he needed it, so it was really a bad situation for him.

Further, Okamoto-san explains that it's because the bank earns from the money that people has borrowed with interest, and the bank will be in a terrible situation if these people are unable to return the money.

Next, Okamoto-san recounts that when he needed a server-side engineer for a mobile app that they were developing, the bank rejected his request of 3 million yen, so he had to go to his daughter to ask her for the money.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that he agrees with the treatment that he had received from the bank, although he believes that such type of severity isn't what all banks practice, because they should always want to help small businesses grow. However, Okamoto-san shares that when a person helps another who is in a bad situation, the latter, as a Japanese, will never forget it.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike