https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260318PM.md; last accessed: 20260319

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The average annual income of Capcom employees has reached 10 million yen

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-19

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's announcement that the average annual income of Capcom employees has reached 10 million yen thanks to the spectacular overall performance of the studio.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w6kBu8sfMgM; last accessed: 20260318

> 【すごい】カプコン業績達成で平均年収が1000万円に到達するかも？｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san says that it's really a phenomenal achievement, because aside from Bandai Namco, Square Enix, Koei Games, or holding companies, the truth is that not a lot of studios can accomplish this feat, including even the great Nintendo, which could only achieve 9 million yen. Furthermore, the number of employees at Capcom already count to a total of around 3,700 people.

Next, Okamoto-san points out that the annual income of the part of the US population that is under the poverty threshold is at most 27 million yen. In the case of Japan, it's below 5 million yen as an average. Moreover, Okamoto-san recounts that an ordinary ramen sold in New York City, for instance, could already make a person pay up to 5,000 yen.

Okamoto-san reveals that when prices have gone up, they almost always do not go down anymore. Further, Okamoto-san explains that the income of the Japanese goes up when the prices of goods and services also go up, and doesn't go the other way around. So jobs that don't give high incomes when these prices go up cause the increase in the number of the population that is under the poverty threshold.

Next, Okamoto-san shares with us that the proportion of the Japanese people that exceeds 10 million yen in annual income is only 6%. Further, the proportion that exceeds 15 million yen is only 1.6%. Meanwhile, the proportion that exceeds 25 million yen is only 0.3%, which means that in about 1,000 people, there's only one person that earns so much.

Finally, Okamoto-san reveals that although the Japanese currency seems low when it's compared to the US currency, the truth is that, from the point of view of other currencies, the US dollar is currently very cheap. So Okamoto-san concludes that it's dangerous to own all of one's money only in the Japanese currency, and he thinks that the Australian dollar can be considered as an alternative.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike
