https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202607/20260703/20260703PM.md; last accessed: 20260704

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The YouTube LIVE video for July 3, 2026

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-07-04

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto, Ms. Tanu and Ms. Tapi's YouTube LIVE video.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PkynZVB8MlQ; last accessed: 20260703

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ（26年7月3日）

## --

This time around, the topic is the news that China's economy is going down.

First, Okamoto-san points out that China is the second largest economy in the world, while the US is the largest.

Next, Okamoto-san informs us that, to be honest, there's plenty of work in China, but young people don't want them. He explains that it's because they are "Blue Collar" work, and the young people are university graduates, so they prefer "White Collar" work. This means that, right now, there aren't a lot of "White Collar" jobs in China where employees work in the office.

Furthermore, Okamoto-san's recounts that China has the problem of increasing old people and decreasing young people just like in Japan, but in the former's case, the ratio indicates that there are much less young people than old people, who have worked prior and, therefore, are consuming what they've saved. Also, given that the available young people don't want to get the "Blue Collar" jobs, China's economy has a big problem.

Next, Okamoto-san foresees that the economies of the world will also have a problem, because everyone's connected to China. Because of this, the value of assets such as real estate and shares in the stock market would continue to go down. Regarding this point, Okamoto-san explains that a long time ago, many people were saying that the value of housing would rise thereafter, but, just like in the case of Japan, many people borrowed money to buy housing there, thinking that they'd make money in the near future. However, wages didn't go up as expected, such that people, who've borrowed money from banks, couldn't pay the interest. As a result, a collapse in the real estate industry took place in Japan. In the same way, some investors anticipate this situation in China and others including Malaysia.

Okamoto-san also shares that EV (Electric Vehicle) like the BYD brand, whose shares he all sold off in 2017, have not be able to make as much money since 15 years ago. Thus, the price of their cars have gone down tremendously. Still, Okamoto-san believes that given that traditional cars that use gasoline or diesel would still not be eliminated entirely, stations for both charging the EV's battery and petroleum for the rest have to be placed. Okamoto-san agrees that a hybrid vehicle is the best option just like what Toyota promotes, especially given the many problems that Okamoto-san has pointed out in his other videos about batteries that catch fire, among others.

Finally, Okamoto-san advises that if a person needs money to spend, he can sell the shares that he has in the S&P, and when their values have gone down even further, he can buy them again. Meanwhile, he says that he still keeps cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and Ethereum even now, and he invests more in them when he can each month.

This is all. Of course, there are many more things that Okamoto-san has shared with us, but I must already stop here.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
