https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202606/20260623/20260623PM.md; last accessed: 20260624

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Why Game Republic Went Bankrupt

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-06-24

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture almost six years ago and which he shared with us last night, among other videos of his.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=70J_wsBNPmo; last accessed: 20260623

> 【特別企画】最大社員数320人「ゲームリパブリック」号が沈没してしまった原因を全てお話します。

## --

This time around, Okamoto-san gives more details about the reason why his studio Game Republic went bankrupt.

First, Okamoto-san says that after working in studio C (or Capcom), he left to establish a new studio called Game Republic with a capital of almost 100 million yen as well as at most 320 employees.

Next, he recounts that in the beginning, they received work from SCE (Sony Computer Entertainment), though they were able to gradually get more from other studios as well. Furthermore, Game Republic had development houses located in several places such as Sapporo, Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka. Okamoto-san also employed several talented people to develop its projects.

Okamoto-san wants to explain the reason why a studio that seemed to be doing well, in the end, ended up going bankrupt. He attributes it to the "Lehman Shock," although he also admits that within Game Republic, they were fighting among themselves to take hold of the position of authority. Okamoto-san also points out that his employees' DNA was clearly different. They came from big studios which included Sega, Capcom, Namco, Square Enix and Taito. In addition, while they tried to work together, everyone felt that, as a result, he couldn't do what he wanted. This means that the studio couldn't come together as one team. Of course, clients such as SCE had their own ideas about how to do things, so Okamoto-san felt that there were too many opinions coming to Game Republic.

Therefore, faced with this situation, Okamoto-san reveals that the studio couldn't launch any best-selling title at all, leading to their also not receiving more work that would give them income.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
