https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202510/20251015/20251015.md; last accessed: 20251016

> Life Stories from Biologist Shinichi Fukuoka: "What is the meaning of time?" (First Part)

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-10-16

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Shinichi Fukuoka's lecture about the topic: "What is the meaning of time?"

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ne19OPxAhYE; last accessed: 20251016

> 「福岡伸一の知恵の学校」第16回｜時間とは何か？

## --

Fukuoka-sensei begins by talking about the way he teaches this class from his School of Wisdom. He says that he brings ideas from the books he's read or he'll soon publish, and speaks about them in class.

Next, he tells a story about magazines. He explains that publishers put interesting content including scandals in the middle part of the magazine, while the general news are in the beginning and closing parts, because people generally only read the latter.

Moreover, Fukuoka-sensei says that although he's a writer for the said middle part of the magazine, the people who write the scandals are in another department, and he doesn't have the power to stop them.

He then shows an article called Panta rhei x Pangloss. He explains that, actually, there are two ways to view the world. One is called the Panta rhei from the Greek Heraclitus who had said that "Everything is in flux." It means that although there exists things like the cycle of seasons, an incident occurs only once. This is why a person's fate is never certain nor determined.

On the other hand, there's also the Pangloss view. Fukuoka-sensei explains that Pangloss had been a professor, a character that Voltaire had written about in his book. According to this view, the whole world has been created through God's words. Therefore, incidents that may appear only random, in actuality, based on this idea, have all been included in the plan of God. So everything that happens in the world is by the hand of God who controls everything for the good of everything as well.

Next, he says that there are also two factions. These are the map-lover and the map-hater. The first forms the concept of the world using logic, for example, through the laws of science or mathematical formulas. On the other hand, there's also the latter who believes that the world is from nature and is not a map that can be boxed.

Fukuoka-sensei points out that he prefers to think about the existence of the two views and these two factions, rather than argue about which ones are better.

Now, of course, there are many more things that Fukuoka-sensei spoke about, but after listening for about 18 minutes, these are the things that I'd like to share with all of you.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike