https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260522/20260522PM.md; last accessed: 20260523

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Shueisha Games' announcement on May 19th about accepting new plans to create a video game

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-23

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about Shueisha Games' announcement on May 19th about accepting new plans to create a video game.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j3VpbBrx05g; last accessed: 20260522

> 企画書からでもOKだぞ！集英社ゲームズがゲーム企画の公募へ。「一緒に作るパブリッシャー」という発想について語ります。

## --

Further, Okamoto-san points out that on the 20th of this same month, Square Enix announced that it has opened a video game contest with a prize money totalling 1 billion yen for all the winners.

Okamoto-san is very happy because of these two announcements, explaining that Shueisha Games wants to create video games together with people including experienced creators as well as newbies. Moreover, the studio knows that all creators need something, which may be, for example, programmers, graphic artists and musicians, among others. Okamoto-san confirms that while he himself is a professional, he also lacks some things such as a space for people to be able to meet up. Thus, it's a big announcement that Shueisha Games wants to address this problem.

Okamoto-san also gives an example in which his daughter has an idea to create a video game, and Shueisha Games will help her by asking her about things like the price of the idea, the type of person she currently needs, if she agrees or not in hiring a professional to write the scenes, if Shueisha Games will release a video game advertisement for her as her publisher, if Shueisha Games will turn the idea into an anime or manga, and many more.

Next, Okamoto-san shares that in Square Enix's contest, a winner will be able to receive 300 million yen, so the timing is impeccable.

Okamoto-san also emphasizes that these two announcements are precisely for video game creators who don't have money, time, technical ability, friends or knowledge. Also, given that the studios will be giving large sums of money, people shouldn't worry that they'd only be deceived.

Furthermore, Okamoto-san teaches how a person could know if his idea is good or not. He says that without worrying that his idea would be stolen, the person should go to his friends first to present to them the idea in document or video form. And if all his friends would agree with him that the idea is good, then it truly is.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that if the majority of people want the idea so much, the possibility of achieving great success will also be high. While Shueisha Games has some specifications for the idea that it'll accept, Okamoto-san firmly believes that a completely new idea that would move Shueisha Games, however, will be able to achieve success.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
