https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251213/20251213PM.md; last accessed: 20251214

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The main music of the new game, Outrankers

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-14

## Last updated: 2025-12-15T11:08

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the first part of the talk between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Tetsuya Komuro, the musician of the main music of Outrankers, the new game from Okamoto-san and team.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9GhU8Bh8uW8; last accessed: 20251213

> 【特別対談】アウトランカーズリリース記念！小室哲哉さんとお久しぶりお話しさせて頂きました！

## --

First, Okamoto-san announces that they've released their new game called "Outrankers." 

Next, Okamoto-san and Komuro-san tell us the story when they met more than 30 years ago, and had been working on the film, "Street Fighter II MOVIE," which was published in 1994. Komuro-san recalls that it was in the winter of 1993 when they finished the task.

Komuro-san says that he had the idea that, since it was the main music of the film, it's the song that people would hear when the film was already showing the credits. Komuro-san also reveals that there was a boy who had been selling CDs in the movie theater. At the start, the boy couldn't sell a lot, only 20,000 or 30,000 up to 50,000 discs. They, including the singer, Ms. Ryoko Shinohara, was surprised, because the discs could sell so much more than they had expected.

Next, Komuro-san reveals that they actually created the music with the idea of working hard without having much time in mind, instead of just enjoying doing the task. Also, he points out that nobody sung in the final part of the song. He explains that it's because the note was too high for the singer. Nevertheless, he did have the idea of adding voice like the one that choirs, who sing behind the lead singer, would have.

With respect to the music of Outrankers called "Kaze ni mau senshi (The Fighters who Dance in the Wind)," Komuro-san was instructed to create something that makes people remember a longing for times past. In particular, it's from the perspective of the character, Chun-Li, who sees the fighters putting in a lot of effort. Komuro-san says that he had to increase this perspective from only one to three for the song.

I conclude the first part of their talk here. Thank you.

Regards,

Mike