https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260414/20260414PM.md; last accessed: 20260415

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The New Super Mario Galaxy The Movie and the Opinions of U.S. Liberals

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-15

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the new film, Super Mario Galaxy The Movie, and the opinions of the liberals in the U.S.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SJhczMf4e3o; last accessed: 20260414

> 【アメリカで話題】映画『スーパーマリオギャラクシー』を巡り、保守派とリベラル派が大きく対立しているらしい。

## --

According to Okamoto-san, several comments have appeared, asking if the protagonist is really a woman or not, as well as the reason why no black hero is in any of the scenes of the film. Likewise, there's no relationship whatsoever between people of the same sex.

Furthermore, Okamoto-san cites U.S. President Donald Trump, who's said that there are only male and female in this world, something to which Okamoto-san agrees. Okamoto-san, therefore, wonders what ideas people would want to bring to the world of a video game. For example, a homosexual Mario who runs? Or Mario and Luigi falling in-love with each other?

Okamoto-san concludes that the world of a video game is a small representation of the real world. So he thinks that the opinions of the liberals aren't important in this case, because, in the end, the producers of the film want to release a video game. 

Before closing, I'd like to comment as response to Okamoto-san that over 20 years ago, students could smoke cigarettes inside the university until a new rule came out, not letting them smoke outside a space called the "Pocket Garden." I had a Filipino language professor who didn't agree with this rule. However, the rule was approved along with these spaces. In addition, after a few years, these spaces were eliminated and nobody can now smoke in the university. I think that my professor liked a lot the experience of liberal writers of the past who lived with cigarettes in their mouths. In the end, I want to say that I don't like cigarettes, nor their smoke, and I'd rather that these smokers smoke inside their homes and not infect others with this vice.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
