https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202510/20251021/20251021PM.md; last accessed: 20251022

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The manga Jojo Steel Ball Run is getting an anime version next year

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-10-22

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the announcement that the manga Jojo Steel Ball Run is getting an anime version come next year.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=guQmrsvdqQg; last accessed: 20251022

> ジョジョ７部はなぜ海外で人気なの？アニメ化決定を祝して７部の魅力を熱く語ります#steelballrun #スティールボールラン ｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san says that the series, Jojo no kimyou na bouken (Jojo's Bizarre Adventure) is his favorite manga, although he admits that he doesn't anymore watch as much anime these days. Moreover, he's a big fan of Mr. Hirohiko Araki, the illustrator of the said series, and he believes that this new release will be his most fantastic to date, particularly when we look into his drawings.
 
Next, Okamoto-san explains that the Jojo series had been in Shonen Jump, a compilation of comics that's released every month, with Jojo getting 10 pages per release. Afterward, it was moved to another compilation called Ultra Jump, though Okamoto-san isn't a subscriber of this anymore so he had to buy the next manga of the series individually. He says that actually there are 24 manga comic books in total.

With respect to its story, this time, it's about a race that the President of the United States opened to celebrate the historic event of completing the railway project that would enable people to travel from east to west of the country by train. So the participants are supposed to go from San Diego to New York riding a horse, and there aren't any other rules besides this.

Okamoto-san explains that the protagonist is paraplegic who'd meet the other protagonist, and both would decide to participate in the race.

Okamoto-san is very interested in the way the horse is drawn in this new anime version, and he thinks that it'll be difficult to pull off, particularly the scene of their first meeting, although he knows that Mr. Araki's team has researched well the horses for both the manga and the anime.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike