https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202606/20260616/20260616PM.md; last accessed: 20260617

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: "Karma Cross," a new game from the creator of the "Dragon Quest" series as well as the creator of the manga comic books "Blue Lock" and "Kamisama no Iu Toori" Mr. Muneyuki Kaneshiro

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-06-17

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about "Karma Cross," a new game from the creator of the "Dragon Quest" series, Mr. Yuji Horii, as well as the creator of the manga comic books "Blue Lock" and "Kamisama no Iu Toori", Mr. Muneyuki Kaneshiro.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fV_BLU6ZyOo; last accessed: 20260616

> “絶対に友達と仲が悪くなる”豪華クリエイターが参画する新作転生ゲーム『カルマクロス』が気になる…！

## --

It's a board game using die about reincarnation, which, it's said, destroys the friendship of friends, because out of four players, only one loses and will not be able to reincarnate. So the players must investigate who will backstab the other. Furthermore, it's actually the opposite of another game, "Catan," which Okamoto-san likes very much in which three of four players win.

Next, Okamoto-san recounts that Horii-san joins to advise the team, along with Kaneshiro-san, who, although it's the first time that he'll be designing a game, brings in achievements from the world of mangas. Further still, the team includes the studio ArtePiazza.

Thus, Okamoto-san is very excited for the game's arrival in the coming summer in Japan, which will take only two or three months more of waiting, especially because he likes very much Horii-san's board games such as "Itadaki Street." He also points out that the part of the gameplay in which 3/4 or 75% wins, while 1/4 or 25% loses is very attractive, because this can't be found in other games. Moreover, he explains that playing it four times and losing once will be very frustrating if the player loses once after playing and winning three times consecutively. Okamoto-san, therefore, shares that maybe this game would be very suitable video-streamed on the internet in which the viewers could see the faces and expressions of the players, particularly when they don't win as they'd expected.

Before closing, I'd like to comment as my response to Okamoto-san that some months ago I had seen Mr. KIMURA TAKUYA's videos in which he was playing Mahjong with three other players. There it could be seen that in the end the woman was able to win against the rest including Kimura-san, meaning that all the people of the house wins if Kimura-san loses. We must also not forget to mention that the house includes the announcer.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YtG6qNvih8A; last accessed: 20260617

> 【木村さ〜〜ん！】これが「神の手順」麻雀プロ相手に木村拓哉の逆襲が始まる！ 

## --

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
