https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260511/20260511PM.md; last accessed: 20260512

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Foreign language departments at universities in China are closing down due to the arrival of AI

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-12

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the news that foreign language departments at universities in China are closing down due to the arrival of AI.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4QctKIrYT1s; last accessed: 20260511

> 【新時代はAI】中国の大学で外国語専攻の廃止相次ぐ｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san says that foreign language classes can no longer be taken in universities, because AI can already help us translate and resolve communication problems. Further, universities are telling students to learn another "weapon" instead of these languages.

Okamoto-san agrees, saying that the English language is becoming less useful in the near future. He also gives two examples to explain this idea.

One is about his experience communicating with a Malaysian woman through the mobile app LINE. Okamoto-san wrote some phrases in the Japanese language and the app automatically translated them into the English language using easy-to-understand words. When Okamoto-san found an error in the meaning of the translated phrase, he again wrote down another phrase to correct the previous translation. Okamoto-san believes that he should use simple words in the Japanese language, so that the app could translate them well.

Another example that he gives is in real time. This time, Okamoto-san points out that he couldn't check the translation, because he didn't use the LINE app in this case. However, he thinks that the other person, a shopkeeper of a well-known brand, had gone to another place to see the Japanese translation of what she wanted to say to Okamoto-san in English.

Okamoto-san also says that he's found that if he writes in literary form, the translation will be excellent. However, Okamoto-san admits that he speaks in Kansai-ben, the dialect of the Kansai region, which is currently difficult for AI to translate, so he thinks that he should talk in the standard Japanese language. Further, he emphasizes the difference between Kansai-ben and the standard Japanese language in the intonation of some of the words. For example, he explains that in Kansai-ben, there's no difference in the intonation of the word "ame" to differentiate "rain" and "candy" unlike in standard Japanese.

Furthermore, Okamoto-san wonders whether AI could help people like himself who can't speak English eloquently. In China, however, it seems that students should learn another weapon instead of mastering two or three languages.

Finally, Okamoto-san thinks that while Japan may be slow in closing down foreign language departments, he firmly believes that the age of AI is coming. When it arrives, we'll be able to get it to take on many and diverse sets of tasks, particularly, in the fields of communication as well as daily living.

Before ending, I'd like to say as my response to Okamoto-san that with respect to interactions in real time, I think that we have to find another medium to communicate face-to-face instead of only showing translations on mobile phones, which, admittedly, may already be enough for tourists.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
