https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260504/20260504PM.md; last accessed: 20260505

> Stories from Game Producer Shinichiro Obata: The Advantages and Disadvantages of Living in Malaysia

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-05

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the advantages and disadvantages of living in Malaysia.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CkwyOhrI3Tg; last accessed: 20260504

> マレーシア移住を検討する方に見てほしい「海外移住のススメ」

## --

He gives several reasons why he likes to live in Malaysia.

One is that it's cheaper to live in an apartment in Malaysia than in Tokyo, costing only 100,000 yen (per month) with amenities such as a swimming pool, a gym and parking space.

Next, Okamoto-san talks about Chinese food, which isn't only cheap, but also delicious. In general, they're of the Sichuan Chinese style. Further, he points out that Malaysian citizens also include those who have Chinese decent, of Indian decent as well as others. Moreover, the Chinese Malaysians occupy the second most abundant race in Malaysia.

Okamoto-san also shares that he can communicate well with Malaysians using the few words that he knows in English, such that the communication aspect isn't too big a problem for a Japanese like himself who lives in Malaysia.

In addition, he says that it's cheaper to hire a maid. Okamoto-san treats her like a friend, because, as a Japanese, he disagrees that maids should be treated like slaves. So he gives them presents when their birthday or Christmas comes.

Furthermore, Okamoto-san shares that given that he lives in Malaysia, he doesn't need to pay any tax when he earns money from the stock market or sells gold. This is, of course, more advantageous than in Japan, where he must pay 20% tax when he sells his shares.

On the other hand, Okamoto-san points out several of his not-so-positive experiences.

For example, his house always has a part that must be repaired, such that Okamoto-san reveals that he has to pay 4 million yen every month in order to solve the problem.

In addition, Okamoto-san says that people don't follow traffic signals. He gives an experience wherein he himself had to move ahead, although the signal was red, because there was another car behind him that was approaching him very quickly and wasn't decreasing its speed. He also recounts that at times, the signals themselves don't work, so each driver drives his own way. And he has colleagues who have gotten into traffic accidents because of this very reason.

He also admits that he encounters subtle communication problems when he orders food at the restaurant. For instance, a food that he hasn't ordered comes and he can no longer cancel it.

Also, he shares with us that it's very relaxed in Malaysia in terms of time, so people don't come at the appointed time and on the dot. Okamoto-san says that this tendency can also be observed in Japan when a person goes down from north to south, particularly, in Okinawa.

In summary, Okamoto-san concludes that he likes to live in Malaysia despite everything. And he advises us to check not only the advantages but also the disadvantages, and decide if overall we also want to live in this country or not.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
