https://github.com/usbong/personal/tree/main/milestone/2025/202507/20250719/20250719.md; last accessed: 20250719

> Joi Ito's General Meeting (July 18): Why move to crypto currencies and Toyama Sushi's Marketing Campaigns

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-07-19

## Last updated: 2025-07-21T09:02

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you my key takeaways from Mr. Joi Ito's general meeting yesterday.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B7sw1Vmw75o; last accessed: 20250719

> 【web3最新情報LIVE】7/18 weekly gm (ゲスト: 寿司といえば富山DAO) | 毎週金曜10:00-11:00生配信 | 伊藤穰一

## --

First, from Comugi-san's news updates, we learn about the recent developments that are happening around the world concerning crypto currencies.

One that I'd like to focus on is the explanation for why there's a movement away from credit cards in favor of crypto currencies.

He says that Visa and Master Card take 2 to 3% from the payment transactions of its customers as part of their service fee so that people have begun to look for ways to reduce, if not eliminate, this overhead cost.

Still, the question is that if the crypto currencies will be getting this service fee from the credit cards themselves, why would people move to them in the first place?

Profitability in owning the new currency still seems to be a deciding factor for many people, though there are those who believe that this isn't necessarily so.

In Japan, for instance, where bank savings yield zero to very little interest for its clients, people look abroad to make their investments.

This reminded me of Europe, though my impression is that they aren't doing so well as may be expected, except maybe for Germany. Just like Japan, for most of the countries in Europe, it seems that investing abroad is really the way to go. 

For now, more campaigns about crypto currencies are being held to spread awareness, while tech and legal infrastructures are still getting built.

Next, during the presentation for the day, we learn how Toyama Sushi is leveraging NFT technology for their marketing campaigns.

Their goal is to form partnerships with people and organizations in the community, which include, for example, the suppliers of rice. 

Moreover, they've been using social media like X to increase awareness of their products and have garnered 4 million impressions and 5,000 followers through their marketing campaigns where they give out gifts and prizes.

They've also organized digital tour events where participants who get three of the NFT's that have their illustrated character "Shimonzugeh" wins a prize in the stamp rally.

Meanwhile, in another event, participants create their own character based on "ban-chan"-the-shark and can look at fish inside the aquarium as they eat sushi.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike