https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202606/20260609/20260609PM.md; last accessed: 20260610

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The dream of traveling South America while incurring as little expenses as possible

> Redactor: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-06-10

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about his dream of traveling to South America while incurring as little expenses as possible. 

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tRsc8PsMDIA; last accessed: 20260609

> 豪華クルーズ旅行よりも貧乏旅行をしてみたい（練習編）｜岡本吉起塾CH

## --

First, Okamoto-san explains that he won't do it, because he's poor; he'll do it, because he believes that the experience is invaluable, something that cannot be exchanged with money. Further, he reveals that each year that passes, his age increases, and he wants even more to travel comfortably, particularly in terms of the flight classes in the airplane, saying he now prefers business class, rather than economy class.

Moreover, Okamoto-san informs us that his mom is 23 years older than he is, and he thinks that he's approaching that age as well when it would already be very difficult to travel.

Next, it appears to Okamoto-san that he'll be able to realize his dream of backpacking in South America in two or three years. He also shares with us that he wants to do what he can do in the area, such as, for example, trying out the bus, the subway, riding the scooter and walking around.

Okamoto-san also thinks that he can try to experience this dream in Japan as a preliminary test. He recounts that he'll have to spend money for transportation, hotels and food. With respect to the expenses for lodging, he says that he's fine with sleeping inside the car, because he wants to bring down his expenses. He also points out that he doesn't mind eating instant ramen noodles, bread or onigiri from the convenience store, even food that he can easily cook at the campsite.

Further, before traveling in another country like South America, he admits that the language will be a problem for him, because Spanish is spoken there. Therefore, he firmly believes that trying out this dream first in Japan is wise. In addition, another destination that he wants to visit as a secondary test before going to South America is Southeast Asia.

Okamoto-san estimates that this trip would need at least a month, up to about three months. He also points out that other problems that he'll surely come across are charging the battery of his mobile phone, washing his clothes, among other things. However, he says that this trip will probably center only around the Tohoku region coming from Kanto.

Finally, Okamoto-san is worried about the method of payment that he'll use when he travels, which will include how much money in cash he'll have to bring, because he doesn't want to show that he's really rich. Also, he wants another person who'll be able to accompany him in this trip, while looking at the picturesque scenery of the places that he wants to visit.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
