https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20250926/20250926PM.md; last accessed: 20250927

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Thoughts about Lifestyle Change: Easy to raise but difficult to bring down the expenses

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-09-27

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about his thoughts regarding lifestyle that is really easy to raise but difficult to bring down the expenses.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kfkj4cdLhHE; last accessed: 20250927

> 皆さんは支出が多すぎる！その年収で生活水準を上げてまうと将来絶対に後悔するで？｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

He explains that there's a rule that states that we should spend up to what we earn as income. 

During the time of Okamoto-san, university students, who had 80,000 yen (approx. 40,000 PHP) per month (now 200,000 yen or approx. 100,000 PHP) spent all their money, and never invested a percent of this amount. Okamoto-san points out several possible reasons for this outcome. For example, there was peer pressure or the person wanted to experience the rich life, among others.

Okamoto-san also gives his own example with his house in Malaysia. He reveals that he spends money for three rooms, but only one is actually used. So, since he doesn't have visitors everyday, he loses money for the cost of the two that he continues to pay each day. However, he thinks that in the end, the passive money that he receives is higher than his expenses so that he doesn't worry about this aspect.

In addition, he says that there are Japanese who are satisfied in Japan, but Okamoto-san advises everyone that they should look outside of Japan too, because there are many more places that they can learn about. He also points out that what can be enjoyed with 10,000 yen (approx. 5,000 PHP), in reality, isn't different with 20,000 yen so that they shouldn't worry about the expenses too much. In this part of his talk, Okamoto-san is concerned about the Japanese who may feel terrible when they can't immediately raise their lifestyle

Finally, it's really difficult to bring down a person's lifestyle, but for Okamoto-san who lives outside Japan, if from an investment of 10 million yen (approx. 5 million PHP) in one year, 800,000 yen (approx. 400,000 yen PHP) or 70,000 yen per month (approx. 35,000 PHP) is returned, life wouldn't be too bad, because as in his example with the students, he believes that people can make do with less, specifically, 150,000 yen (approx. 75,000 PHP) of 200,000 yen (approx. 100,000 PHP), while the remaining 50,000 yen (approx. 25,000 PHP) is invested.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike