https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202606/20260629/20260629PM.md; last accessed: 20260630

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: A couple from Canada was able to achieve FIRE (Financial Independence Retire Early) in their 30s

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-06-30

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's news about a Canadian couple who was able to achieve (Financial Independence Retire Early) in their 30s, a very impressive feat.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9XbLHPCzv0I; last accessed: 20260629

> 【実話】とある30代のカナダ人がFIREに到達した驚きの方法｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san recounts that this couple, at the start, wanted to buy a house, but although they save a lot, housing prices continue to go up as well. So they decided that instead of buying a house, they're going to invest in the stock market; thus, they began to save 30% to 50% of their income, which was quite high totalling a little below 20 million yen per year for the both of them. Okamoto-san points out that they do a type of job that is for people who also have a high level of skill. Further, in the end, they were able to save 70% of their income by spending only 4% of what they earn.

Next, Okamoto-san points out that they were able to achieve FIRE very quickly in their 30s, because they already had around 57 million yen to buy a house, so they only needed 50 million yen more to accomplish this objective. Okamoto-san also mentions that they have a child and pay apartment rent, but they've decided to live very inexpensively, even as they earn more and more money. In addition, they travel the world without changing their lifestyle. Specifically, they keep a maximum of 4.6 million yen's worth of expenses per year.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that there are currently new types of jobs such as YouTuber, online writer or whatever we may dream of, but, in the end, he hopes that we'd choose something that helps us reach our goal of achieving FIRE. Furthermore, he reminds us that the new NISA from the Japanese government would surely help us a lot, because while it may seem that getting less 20% tax isn't much, Okamoto-san firmly believes that its effect would grow bigger in the future, so encourages us to take advantage of it.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
