https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260204PM.md; last accessed: 20260205

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Major shareholders of Hasbro are suing the company's president

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-05

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about toymaker Hasbro.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DKtzSDcKF4w; last accessed: 20260204

> 米大手玩具メーカー「ハズブロ」が株主から提訴された理由とは？【MTG】

## --

He says that its headquarters is in Rhode Island, the smallest state in the US having 1/250 the size of Alaska whose land area is at 2,707 km², a little bigger than Saga and Kanagawa prefectures of Japan.

Next, Okamoto-san shares the announcement that the main shareholders of Hasbro, Mr. Joseph Clocono and Mr. Ultan McGlone, are suing the president of the company for creating too many Magic The Gathering (MTG) series in collaboration with other franchises. They point out that for this reason, the existing cards are being undervalued.

Okamoto-san also explains that collectors of MTG like his employee, Mister Banchu, buy boxes of packs of each new release instead of only one card later on in order to reduce the cost. However, Okamoto-san reveals that given that buyers of old cards from previous packs decrease, their value also goes down.

Okamoto-san believes that due to these excess collaborations, in only two years, the value of the company itself isn't anymore going up. This is why the shareholders think that the fault lies in the management.

Next, Okamoto-san gives the example of Nike and the series of products called Nike Air in which there was the Air Jordan, which basketball player Michael Jordan had introduced. According to what Okamoto-san, during that time, Nike could make a lot of money through these shoes, which differed only in color or some other. However, little by little the sales of these shoes went down, and along with it, the value of Nike's shares as well.

Another example that Okamoto-san gives is the G-SHOCK series of watches that at the start had cost only 7,000 yen or more each. However, he found out that the old watches of this series are now sold by resellers at 300,000 yen apiece. Okamoto-san explains that he doesn't agree with companies continuing to launch new series or collaborations in order to make money, because we also have to consider the ones that still exist up to now and whether or not the company also loses them through this method. Further, Okamoto-san points out that what had been attractive about Hasbro was that it didn't anymore relaunch MTG series.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that we need to be strict in the management of companies.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike