https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260503/20260503PM.md; last accessed: 20260504

> Stories from Game Producer Shinichiro Obata: The conversation between Shinichiro Obata of Byking and Yosuke Shiokawa of Fahrenheit213 (Part 3) 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-04

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you the next part in the conversation between Shinichiro Obata of Byking and Yosuke Shiokawa of Fahrenheit213. 

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1NK6tE2vpUM; last accessed: 20260503

> 【#3】ゲームが作られてからお客様に届けるまで…！二人のクリエイターが仕事術を語る！:ゲスト 塩川 洋介【#クリエイター偉人伝】

## --

This time around, Shiokawa-san shares with us that he thinks that old games are a lot more helpful to students than recent ones, because they have less extras with respect to their 3D designs, such that they are better for those who want to learn the core elements of the game.

Obata-san, for his part, recounts that when he entered Capcom for the first time, he had to create a variety of drawings or animation frames for punching, among other things. He reveals that he didn't need to create them out of nothing, because he had examples upon which he could improve. He, therefore, recommends trying to improve existing designs by changing their colors or some other aspect based on our taste. Moreover, he teaches that we have to imagine converting something real, which may appear slow-moving, into one that can be used in a video game.

Shiokawa-san also points out that we can discover the core of a game by trying out several effects that result of the punching. 

Next, they, along with Miss AI, show us a video of Shiokawa-san's new game called "TSURUGIHIME." 

Afterward, Shiokawa-san announces that his team is working hard to launch an Early Access version on Steam this year, 2026. He also introduces the game by saying that it's an action-platformer with RPG elements. Furthermore, he admits that the video gives viewers a sense of mystery in that we still don't completely understand everything, such that Shiokawa-san explains that the heroine uses a sword whose quantity gradually increases. He also says that depending on the stage's boss, the heroine has to choose the most apt ability in order to defeat him.

In addition, Shiokawa-san recounts that to be frank, he doesn't have tens of colleagues in this project, and throughout these three years, its members, which include contractual workers, have continued to work until they've finally found someone who's interested in the game.

This is all. I end here this part of the conversation between Obata-san and Shiokawa-san. 

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
