https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260325/20260325PM.md; last accessed: 20260326

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Electronic Gaming Development Company (EGDC), a company from the Saudi investment group MiSK, has bought Capcom's shares

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-26

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about Electronic Gaming Development Company (EGDC), a company of the investment group MiSK, purchasing Capcom shares.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TL74-bsVLH0; last accessed: 20260325

> サウジ系投資会社がカプコン株を大量購入！サウジ皇太子と株価｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san points out that EGDC has owned around 96% of developer SNK, and also over 5% of Capcom. Furthermore, this 5% translates to 26,788,500 of Capcom shares.

Next, Okamotos-an says that in March of last year, the value of Capcom began to go down, although in July of the same year, it went up before going down again.

Okamoto-san explains that in his opinion, the value of the studio could again go up depending on the performance of the new and upcoming Bio Hazard film. However, it seems that actually the outcome would depend more on Monster Hunter Wilds, which although has already sold 10 million copies, based on the satisfaction of users as well as the value of the brand, it still isn't stellar, disappointing even.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that instead of worrying that the value of Capcom would go down further, it's better to be optimistic and hope for its rise, especially given that a company like EGDC has invested in the studio.

As my reponse to Okamoto-san's advice to also write our comments, I'd like to say that if the object is to increase the value of the shares, the major shareholders should not sell them and strive to improve the value of the studio through the sale of its products and services, so that other investors would want to invest in it.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike