https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260410/20260410PM.md; last accessed: 20260411

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Punishment for Prostitution

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-10

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's topic about the punishment for prostitution.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2tT4pjgKxGw; last accessed: 20260410

> いよいよ「買春」について罰則化の検討に入るそうで｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san recounts that it appears to him that selling humans is a business that's existed since the beginning of human history.

Next, he says that nowadays the seller is at fault, but the buyer isn't. This is why there are people who ask if it's better to blame the buyer as well.

Okamoto-san points out that, in the first place, the woman is on a street where her main objective is to sell sex. Furthermore, in countries like Germany, Switzerland and Spain, this type of business is allowed.

Okamoto-san also reports that there are women who explain that they went abroad including the US in order to earn and save money. For this reason, the men go abroad to buy them. In line with this, there are countries that investigate women who say that they're traveling abroad as tourists, but whose objective is actually different in reality. Since the authorities have already known this trick, they don't let them leave the country.

Still, according to Okamoto-san, if we compare prostitution with other crimes like armed robbery, it's actually a fairly minor form of crime.

Okamoto-san then shares his opinion in which he says that although he doesn't go to places like cabaret clubs, he thinks that prostitution is a necessary evil, and when we create more rules or become stricter, the guilty would only continue even more.
 
Finally, he concludes that given that he thinks that we've already achieved a balance with respect to this issue, it's better that we don't do anything further.

Before closing, I'd like to comment as a response to Okamoto-san that very recently I've seen several Christian congregations wherein the members marry each other, but after marrying, the mestiza woman could be seen to clearly not want to have sex with her husband, who appears to be not a mestizo. I think that it's a scam in which the woman gets entangled so much that she can't tell the truth to her family and everyone else, so that she behaves very strangely. On the other hand, I think that the man already knows the reason, but his friends continue to help him, particularly with respect to money, which the woman initially wanted in order to obtain a sense of stability.

This is all. 

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike