https://github.com/usbong/personal/tree/main/milestone/2025/202508/20250819/20250819PM.md; last accessed: 20250820

> The new Nintendo Switch 2 has sold more than 5.8 million units after a month of its release

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-08-19

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the talk by Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto on the Nintendo Switch 2.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P6mEJ8cIJjA; last accessed: 20250820

> 全世界販売600万台を突破！何故そんなに売れているのか？品薄続く『Nintendo Switch 2』についてゲームプロデューサーが解説

## --

He says that after a month, the new console from Nintendo has sold over 5.8 million units.

This time, Okamoto-san shares with us the reason for this outcome.

First, he explains that although Nintendo has prepared the sufficient number of units for the buyers of Switch 2, the truth is that the company had employed a marketing tactic. It believes that if the demand for the product is more than the supply, people will have the motivation to buy it immediately the moment more console units arrived.

According to Okamoto-san, it's the same as saying that this is already their last chance, so people who want the product should buy it right now.

In addition, he explains that for Okamoto-san, if a person really wants the Switch 2, it's better that he bought it while it's not yet too late, so that if he's buying 10 games all in all, he can maximize the life of the console. I think that this is because he's talking about the type of buyer who'll later also purchase the next console after Switch 2.
 
Okamoto-san also points out that since Switch games can run on Switch 2, buyers are sure that the new console is going to be amazing.

Finally, Okamoto-san wants us to also write our opinions regarding this topic, and I believe that we can share the reason why we buy new consoles like the PlayStation.

In my family's case, I remember that the first PlayStation cost 10,000 pesos in 1995. We didn't really have a Super NES (or a Super Famicom) at home, and since we read from the magazines at the time that it's already the next-generation console, we also wanted one.

Of course, the shopkeeper also taught us the way to run cheap CD's using the original, which was Street Fighter Zero. So, our new console had been from Japan and used 110V.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike