https://github.com/usbong/personal/tree/main/milestone/2025/202507/20250711/20250711PM.md; last accessed: 20250715

> Why doesn't DeNA's Pokémon TCG Pocket make more money?

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-07-11

## --

Dear friends,

Today, Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto is speaking about studio DeNA, which had produced the game, Pokémon TCG Pocket (Poke Poke), using the Pokémon brand. 

First, Okamoto-san says that he still owns stocks of the said company and thus would want to say something as an owner.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lzUcVXUWUoI; last accessed: 20250712

> DeNA決算発表後の株価とポケポケの売上ピーク予測について現役ゲームプロデューサーがアツく語ります。

## --

He points out that recently, since January of this year, the value of the company's stocks has continued to go up, and he thinks that it's been a great improvement.

However, we can also hear that the number of daily users of the Poke Poke game has gone done, and in addition the president of the company seems to not care at all about this outcome.

Okamoto-san wants to say that there are still markets where localization for the game hasn't yet been done so that the company can take advantage of these markets to obtain more users.

Further, Okamoto-san clarifies that although the game's gameplay aspect has some problems like, for instance, to attack early means to receive more damage, which Okamoto-san doesn't like, there are actually people who only want to collect cards for their collections. This is why the company also has to think about this type of users for their game.

Finally, he explains that the company has a history with Nintendo, which may be the reason why it doesn't earn as much and its president is what he has described.

The truth is that there are three companies: one is called Creatures, the second, DeNA, and the third is Pokémon. 

Among these three, studio DeNA seems to have the lowest in terms of income from the Pokémon brand. According to Okamoto-san's story, the head of the company had once said to the boss of Nintendo that he only wanted to work on Nintendo projects, even though their studio doesn't make a profit. This is why Okamoto-san believes that the company hasn't been making as much money even up to now.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike