https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S16505828.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20260717

> VOX POPULI: Ultraman at 60

> Translator: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-07-17

## --

Ultraman is riddled with many questions. For instance, there's a question about why he's a public servant. While he's made to be a member of the universe's special security force and come from the Nation of Light of the faraway star, M78, is he actually some sort of police officer? If so, what is the reason why he isn't a regular company employee instead? 

Superman is a news reporter. And Ironman is a civilian. In the U.S., people rise up, and, at times, use force to fight evil in indignation. This appears to capture the hearts of the people there. 

On the other hand, Japan isn't a country where people take up arms to fight; instead, they go alongside some form of symbol of justice like the police. 

The Ultraman TV show is said to have begun airing in 1960. Do 20,000 brave men and women on the planet also celebrate their birthdays with a splash? 

While the author hadn't been born yet at the time, he recalls that when he was in kindergarten age, during the evenings, he would excitedly watch reruns of the show, where aliens like Barutan, Jamira and Zetton made an appearance. 

Nostalgia would well-up in him just by bringing up these names. He can even recall that heavy fella named Skydon. These monsters aren't simply evil incarnate that are soon brought down to their knees. In fact, it's there that we learn that the tale isn't purely about good versus evil. 

Actually, I've met a lot of "monsters" growing up. While only a metaphor, I learned that each of them has their own worries, and continue to struggle with what is just. For the author, that is the teaching of Ultraman. 

Here's another question. Because Ultraman doesn't talk very much, we don't know what language or special communication skill he has. Maybe he could also do sign language. I wonder... 

It'll be 3 minutes soon. This column is already using up 603 characters. I'll end it here. Shuwa!!!

## Reference:

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE

<br/>
<br/>
