https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251217/20251217PM.md; last accessed: 20251218

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Why People Give Up on Their Dreams

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-18

## Last updated: 2025-12-19T10:03

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about dreams and the reasons why there are people who give up on them.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x3Q9aOmzhdc; last accessed: 20251217

> なぜ人は『夢』を諦めるのか？失敗しても挑戦し続けるマインドセット｜岡本吉起塾Ch


## --

Okamoto-san says that whenever we abandon a task, we'd have many excuses, and we'd also find that it's something that is very easy to do. But he points out that only the person, who hasn't given up, could achieve success.

Still, Okamoto-san believes that most likely this person, who's achieved success, also committed innumerable mistakes. Furthermore, he thinks that most people give up on their dreams after thinking about the task at hand and believing that it's something impossible for them to accomplish.

Okamoto-san also says that humans are beings that must overcome challenges, otherwise they'll regret that the opportunity has already passed them.

Next, Okamoto-san gives the example of his own life wherein he moved to Malaysia, and established a company in order to develop games. But he says that he'll be retiring from the video game industry soon. Nevertheless, he reiterates that he still wants to overcome new challenges like, for example, developing a board game and becoming an architect. 

In addition, although he foresees that he'll surely commit many mistakes in the process, he believes that it's better that he has tried to overcome these new challenges. Moreover, he emphasizes that these mistakes actually help strengthen him in order to stand up again.

Finally, he concludes that we likely have only one life, so let's achieve success by overcoming new challenges.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike