https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20251003/20251003AM.md; last accessed: 20251003

> Business Stories from Joi Ito's General Meeting: Rakuten NFT and Niigata City

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-10-03

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you some of the salient points in Mr. Joi Ito's General Meeting this Friday.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7TkV4JSUu0k; last accessed: 20251003

> 新潟県関川村から学ぶ、DAOを活用した"ふるさと納税"の活性化/地方創生施策とは？｜今週のweb3ニュースまとめ｜weekly gm｜2025年10月3日

## --

But first let me clarify that these are only some of the things that I've been able to pick-up while listening to their conversation during which time I also had to take several incoming phone calls.

Next, as usual, Comugi-san shared news about the developments in the world of crypto currencies and their accompanying technologies. 

As we heard from his explanation on Rakuten NFT, a marketplace for NFT in the context of baseball and soccer game ticket reselling, the goal is to get people to make use of the underlying technologies as a matter of course, instead of something that is presented as something new and radically innovative. With this in mind, it appears that progress is already underway in Japan.

Next, Mr. Tetsuji Koike ("Kotetsu") shares his story on how they're using NFT technology to invigorate Niigata City. 

He explains that he's currently living in Sekikawa-mura, one of four villages in Niigata City. He adds that the point of the initiative is to bring people together, and he thinks that holding events where members of the community could come together to have fun and then eat afterward is the way to go.

Comugi-san then asked if there's anything special or distinct about the region, and Kotetsu-san said that there isn't anything in particular, though he did show photos of their agricultural produce.

I think Comugi-san wanted to know how Kotetsu-san and his team would bring money into their community, and perhaps having some kind of noteworthy event like a festival could do just that.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike