https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260126/20260126PM.md; last accessed: 20260127

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Vacation in Thailand Last December 2025

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-27

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about his vacation in Thailand last December 2025.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lOMUB13TfZU; last accessed: 20260126

> 円安を痛感。久しぶりにタイに滞在して感じたこと【リゾート旅行】｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san reiterates that it's been his dream to live in Thailand, although he chose Malaysia in the end.

Next, he explains that during his most recent trip, he was surprised to find out that the price of goods and services in Thailand has increased.
 
Furthermore, there were no tourists from China, and the majority of visitors, particularly in the island of Samui, were from Europe so that the common language was English, something that Okamoto-san was able to recognize.

He also thought that Thailand's currency, the baht, has gone up two times more than before. He reveals that about 30 years ago, food cost 20 to 25 baht, or 1/5 of the cost in Japan. For example, during that time, he and two women could eat at a Chinese restaurant for a total of only 3,000 yen for all of them.

However, this time, 10 baht already amounts to 50 yen, instead of 35 yen, because the value of the yen has gone down.

Okamoto-san also gives the example of public transportation. Taxis in general cost him 2,000 yen for 15 minutes of travel, the same as Japan's, according to Okamoto-san.

Next, he says that each night of lodging at the island cost him approximately 66,000 yen, while coffee from a small stall cost 500 to 1000 yen, also the same with Japan's.

It is for these reasons that Okamoto-san believes that after retiring, if we were to add up his annual pension and 100 million yen, we'll discover that, unfortunately, it won't be possible to live in Thailand for a person like Okamoto-san. 

Therefore, Okamoto-san advises having a bank account that could give people a high interest rate, in addition to investing in stocks.

Finally, he points out that December to February is the best season to visit Thailand. And in his case, for two weeks, he had taken a break in the island, and whenever he began to worry, he'd go out to drive a scooter and toured around the island. Given that the national religion is Buddhism, he thinks that it's easy to live there, especially because everyone smiles. He concludes that it's a country very similar to Japan, and advises everyone to visit Thailand as well.

This is all. 

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike