https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260303PM.md; last accessed: 20260304

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Third Part in the Chat between Yoshiki Okamoto and NishiP

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-04

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you the continuation of Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's chat with Mr. Yasuhiro "NishiP" Nishiyama.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3IhlL_CI21I; last accessed: 20260303

> 【ゲーム理論】“対戦ゲームの面白さ”ってどこにある？｜スゴロックス西山泰弘さんと対談Part.3

## --

In this third part, Okamoto-san points out that he only has one year and four months before he retires.

NishiP-san responds that he believes that the video game era really began in 1983, and the creator, who has done everything including working in a studio and afterward establishing his own company, while creating many different types of games, is Okamoto-san himself.

Okamoto-san admits that he did what he enjoyed, and he believes that it's very important to have a sense of freedom from worries in order to live longer.

Further, NishiP-san says that this mentality is essential particularly in the era of AI. However, he admits that he doesn't understand well "Minecraft", nor Nintendo's "Animal Crossing."

Okamoto-san recounts, for his part, that he enjoyed the "Tomodachi Collection," which was launched for Nintendo's handheld console, the DS, and announces that a new game will be released soon. In this game, Okamoto-san explains that players of this game can customize their significant other. NishiP-san knows this game, and recalls that they later get married.

Next, NishiP-san asks him about what he plays, for instance, a strategy game wherein a player fights against another.

Okamoto-san answers that he plays strategy games, but prefers that it wouldn't be anymore necessary to add the NPC (Non-player character that is controlled by the AI), because the win-lose ratio is difficult to adjust so that the player would continue to play. Specifically, a ratio of 1 win and 1 lose probably feels like 4 wins and 6 loses.

NishiP-san thinks that the Street Fighter fighting game series is very fun to play, because the fighter faces a new challenger in every tournament. And while he wins only 3 and loses 7, the motivation to continue to join is based on the player's satisfaction.

Okamoto-san agrees, and gives the example he observed in Japan wherein a newbie would lose the fight quickly, but would still thank the winner after their fight. He also gives another example in which there was a hotshot who won many times consecutively, and his opponent was very happy to be able to land a strong punch at him. And when the hotshot felt that the opponent was too easy to beat after winning the first fight, the latter would win the second round. Because of this, the fight could really feel like a 1 on 1.

Finally, we should also add the part in their talk about the changes that were introduced in "Monster Hunter" so that many players, such as 4-on-4, could choose the fighting style that they prefer and can go fight alongside their companions.

Of course, there are many more things that Okamoto-san and NishiP-san talked about, but I'll already stop here.

This is all. 

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike