https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260416/20260416PM.md; last accessed: 20260417

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Earthquakes and what has to be done if one occurs while you're in the subway 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-17

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about earthquakes and what has to be done if one takes place while we're in the subway.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bjYYzYEI6Q0; last accessed: 20260416

> 大規模地震が起きたらどうする？首都直下型地震の恐怖｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san recounts that 15 years ago, a massive earthquake occurred in northeast Japan. During that time, he says that he was inside a train in Shibuya station. Due to the earthquake, the train couldn't move at all, so he walked back to his house in Den-en-chofu. Furthermore, he quickly bought food before arriving to his house, and afterward he left his house again driving his car to pick up his daughter in Ebisu. Also, with his daughter, there were other people who wanted to return to their homes, so Okamoto-san had a total of nine people inside his car.

But according to Okamoto-san, they weren't in the subway, so if that were the case, what should people do? Okamoto-san also asks, if there are 8.4 million people who want to return to their homes, how crowded would the streets be? Okamoto-san says that in every 1 square-meter, there would be 4 or 6 people, that is, an avalanche of people.

In addition, it's advised that people look for a safe place and not transfer to another place for 72 hours. Okamoto-san explains that it's in order to rescue people more easily. Moreover, given that cars block the traffic, the ambulance as well as the firetruck won't be able to pass the road quickly. However, people can still contact their family and friends using their mobile phones.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that Japanese people take into consideration their countrymen, such that by not transferring themselves unnecessarily by car, another life could be saved. Therefore, Okamoto-san emphasizes that this type of situation really tests the morality and civility of the Japanese.

This is all. 

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
