https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260401/20260401PM.md; last accessed: 20260401

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The "Okuribito," a person who's accumulated 100 million yen in assets

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-01

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the "Okuribito," a person who's accumulated 100 million yen in assets.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWnHSRjcz-w; last accessed: 20260331

> 誰でも資産1億円は作れるはず｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san explains that while it seems that there aren't a lot of people who have this amount, in reality, 1% of Japanese people have achieved 100 million yen. Moreover, he clarifies that a baby may already have this amount due to having been born into a wealthy family.

But what Okamoto-san wants to emphasize is the idea that we may be able to also accumulate 100 million yen.

He gives four steps: First is to save a lot. Second is to not spend money. Third is to work longer. And the last is to invest.

Okamoto-san points out that many Japanese spend what they earn, so he advises not to spend everything. Okamoto-san believes that investing every month on the S&P wherein 8.5% interest is expected is the most reasonable way to accumulate 100 million yen quickly, especially if we compare it with the usual way of working and saving throughout 40 years. Also, doing plenty of work, including a secondary job, helps us obtain more money to invest.
  
Finally, Okamoto-san hopes that we may want to strive harder to achieve success.

Before closing, I'd like to add that another step is to not give birth to children. Prices of goods and services also go up, because there are people who steal, creating more problems for the company, because they believe that they always don't make enough money. What they don't ask themselves is why they don't teach their children not to give birth to more children, especially if their income is enough for only one person. For this reason, a high amount, even a million pesos, will never be enough.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike