https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260513/20260513PM.md; last accessed: 20260514

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The YouTube Live Stream for May 13, 2026

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-14

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Ms. Tapi's YouTube live stream last night.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=spcGF-zYGyw; last accessed: 20260513

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ（26年5月13日）

## --

This time around, Okamoto-san reveals that, firstly, Ms. Tanu isn't with him, because Okamoto-san has returned to Japan to travel in a cruise ship with his mother starting from the port of Kobe to Hiroshima for three weeks. However, he's given Ms. Tanu several tasks to do including editing Okamoto-san's videos, among others. 

Meanwhile, Ms. Tapi speaks with Okamoto-san via mobile. Okamoto-san explains that he currently uses the ship's wifi instead of his regular mobile network, because his phone doesn't receive any signal.

Furthermore, Okamoto-san says that it's their second day traveling. He recalls that he's paid 800,000 yen for the whole trip, so, along with his mother, he's paid a total of 1.6 million yen, although he thinks that he's paid more than this amount.

Okamoto-san points out that the price includes three meals per day: breakfast, lunch and dinner. Also, it's allowed to eat as much as the traveler might want. Okamoto-san gives examples of food like hamburgers, beef, curry, fish and more that are available in the ship's six restaurants. However, he thinks that the complimentary wine isn't amazing, probably costing only 2,000 yen, and he prefers one that is 10,000 yen or more.

In addition, Okamoto-san recounts that given that he's traveling in a cruise ship, he feels the waves of the sea. He believes that a person will be able to get used to the movement after three weeks. Still, he takes medicine in order to not feel dizzy.

Okamoto-san also shares that there's a dress code, such that depending on the event prepared by the staff or the hour of the day, the traveler must put on a suitable attire even a tuxedo. Okamoto-san also observes that all the passengers are Japanese and elderly, so he thinks that this rule could be more forgiving. In fact, Okamoto-san says that the youngest person in their group is him.

This is all. Of course, there are many more things that Okamoto-san has said, but I should already stop here.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
