https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251212/20251212PM.md; last accessed: 20251213

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The life of Mr. Warren Buffett after retiring at 91 years old

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-13

## Last updated: 2025-12-14T09:47

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Ms. Tapi's new YouTube Live video.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HF1nHZzXugU; last accessed: 20251213

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ（25年12月12日）

## --

This time, the topic is about Mr. Warren Buffett.

But first, Okamoto-san shares with us that he's going to leave the country for a vacation and will be relaxing for around three weeks. Because of this, he won't be releasing any live videos during that time.

Furthermore, he says that he had been quite busy in Tokyo the last two weeks, and he has just returned to Malaysia. Next, he talks about an illness that gives him a headache, and says that there's actually a procedure involving an injection to transfer blood from another part of his body to a specific part in his neck. He also reveals that it'll cost three to five million yen (approx. 1.5 to 2.5 million PHP).

With respect to the main topic tonight, Okamoto-san says that Mr. Buffett has decided to retire this year. This is why he's now stopping his habit of writing messages and posting them on his web page, something that he had been doing every year. Also, at 91 years old, he eats potato chips and drinks coca-cola, the type of food that he had opted not to consume since a long time ago. Moreover, he currently doesn't eat broccolis and carrots. So what he had not eaten and drunk before, he now eats and drinks. In the same way, he doesn't eat what he doesn't like to eat.

Okamoto-san shares with us that the first time he tried out coca-cola, it was quite spicy for him. At the time, he already knew that it was liquid full of sugar. Furthermore, he says that there are actually food that he also doesn't like. For example, he doesn't want to eat fish with plenty of tiny bones. On the other hand, there are some food that he's gotten used to eating. Examples include natto (fermented soy beans) from Japan and the Durian fruit.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike