https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251212/20251212AM.md; last accessed: 20251212

> Business Stories from Prof. Joi Ito's General Meeting: Crypotcurrency Businesses Around the World

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-12

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you three of the current news involving Web3 and Crypto in the new video from Mr. Joi Ito and team.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h_tcTW_pSy4; last accessed: 20251212

>  【最新web3情報LIVE】2026年のweb3/Cryptoのトレンドはどうなる？「Hyperliquid」と「Helium」から読み解くweb3最前線｜weekly gm｜2025年12月12日 

## --

As usual, the meeting this morning began with Comugi-san sharing several news reports from Nihon Keizai News.

The first one is about the plunging value of the shares of American Bitcoin, the Bitcoin mining business that US President Trump's family is involved in, particularly, with regard to the management of the business. According to Bloomberg News, Trump's family has lost over a billion dollars in assets after October of this year. These assets were said to have been used to build the aforementioned cryptocurrency business.

The next piece of news is about Naver. The large Korean company is investing an enormous amount of money in cryptocurrency through its 1.6 trillion yen merger with Dunamu, South Korea's largest cryptocurrency business. In particular, Naver Financial is turning Dunamu into Naver's completely owned subsidiary. 

While the merger's aim is to grow new revenue sources amidst sluggish growth in internet search, there are still plenty of security issues involved in this business. 

Finally, HashKey Holdings, a Hong-Kong cryptocurrency business, has announced that it's planning to do an IPO in the Hong-Kong Stock Exchange. It's foreseen to have a valuation of as much as 19.2 billion HKD when it opens to the market this December 17th. Given the drop of about 30% in the value of the shares of Bitcoin, and the series of hacking incidents and forced liquidations that have been happening around the world, HashKey is said to be moving against the tide with this move.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike