https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260307/20260307PM.md; last accessed: 20260308

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Investing in Ourselves

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-07

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about investing.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tl8zCDrxNb4; last accessed: 20260307

> なんで皆さん投資を始めないの…？【今が一番若い】｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, he explains several reasons why a person wouldn't start to invest in stocks.

First is that he doesn't have the money. Okamoto-san teaches that to solve this problem, first, we should decide that in an income of 200,000 yen per month, for example, we'd put 30,000 yen in investing.

The next reason is that the expenses for our necessities and non-necessities mix. So, the solution is to differentiate well between these two.

The third reason is spending too much. Okamoto-san recounts that when we invest, we should not invest everything in stocks so that we'd be able to have cash to invest some more when the value of the shares in the stock market go down.

Okamoto-san further speaks about reducing expenses and increasing income. Although he doesn't advice reducing too much our expenses, what's important is to invest in ourselves.

We can increase our income through this measure and make more money. Alternatively, we can have a secondary job. Another is to move to another work.

Okamoto-san also tells about his experience using only at most 300 yen per day for food, and investing 3,000 to 6,000 yen per month through in-app purchases in a mobile app, which helped him achieve financial success much later.

Before ending, given that Okamoto-san wants to read our opinions as well, I'd like to say that I prefer to spend what I earn in cash from my day-to-day work, along with what I get as profit from my investments.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike