https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260412/20260412PM.md; last accessed: 20260413

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The fourth part in the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious" (Part 4-3) 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-13

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video two weeks ago. It's the third part in the conversation between Okamoto-san and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious." Also, this is now part 4-3.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DHDUFkEFE4c; last accessed: 20260412

> 【文化保存】日本のゲーム文化を後世に残すために今やれることは｜マトリックス大堀康祐さん対談Part.4

## --

Okamoto-san comments that Capcom's CP system for the arcades probably made use of DATA EAST's idea of changing parts such as the motherboards and the video games. Ohori-san agrees that it was really a great stride forward to easily change motherboards that housed the game and plug the connection without doing anything further.

Afterward, Ohori-san reiterates his desire to preserve video game culture. Okamoto-san responds that the Japanese are fascinated with preserving everything, even buildings, swords or ceramics, although games, as digital products, aren't yet recognized as much. However, promotions related to video games like "Abe Mario" in the Olympics have helped the industry with respect to getting recognized.

Next, Ohori-san recounts that his office is in the building called Kamishicho in Kabukicho, and highlights that it's the same building that was destroyed in "Like a Dragon 2." Furthermore, he hopes that Kabukicho may become an entertainment space for video game developers. In addition, this is in order to facilitate the information exchange among developers.

In fact, there are now five studios right now in the building and has about 300 creators. To further strengthen its image as an entertainment hub, Ohori-san is thinking about proposing getting a space at the city center or in Shinjuku.

He also says that there's currently a hospital near the building, so although a game center might not be suitable, Ohori-san believes that the building could be converted into a video game museum.

This is all. I end here this part of the conversation between Okamoto-san and Ohori-san.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
