https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260106/20260106PM.md; last accessed: 20260107

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Tekken Series Producer Katsuhiro Harada has retired from Bandai Namco

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-07

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about his thoughts on the news that well-known producer of the Tekken series Mr. Katsuhiro Harada has just retired from Bandai Namco.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AcxT3DGA2-s; last accessed: 20260106

> 【衝撃】『鉄拳』原田勝弘さんがバンナム社を退職されたというニュースに驚いています

## --

Okamoto-san admits that he was surprised the first time that he had heard this announcement. He explains that in the first place, Harada-san is most known for Tekken, so much so that it seems that creating Tekken is the only thing that he did.

Furthermore, there's a rumor that before becoming Tekken's producer, Harada-san had worked at "Playmax," an arcade game center owned by Namco and was located in West Shinjuku. There he had advised players about arcade games before joining the team that would eventually launch Tekken.

Whether this rumor is true or not, Okamoto-san likes the story, because he also believes that Harada-san is a fantastic producer. 

Next, Okamoto-san reveals that 2026 is actually the 30th anniversary of the series, and it's said that Harada-san had prepared well for this event by training his team.

Although it seems that Harada-san still doesn't have any definite place after retiring from Bandai Namco, Okamoto-san believes that Harada-san already has an idea, because if a person has really planned his retirement very well and for several years besides, of course, he'd also have decided what he'll do afterward.

Okamoto-san explains that it's rather difficult to be independent in the video game industry, because he'll also need to find a sponsor to give him money which he'd use in the development of his new game.

Finally, Okamoto-san wants to believe that Harada-san will create his own new brand, whatever form it may be. Moreover, he emphasizes that he respects very much people who can accomplish a work from zero to one.

Before ending, given that Okamoto-san has advised us to also write our comments, I'd like to share with you the impression that I have about Okamoto-san's most favorite fighting game. I might be wrong, but I think that it's Street Fighter III Third Strike, which Okamoto-san and his team have put in the best that they could do given the time, as well as their team's abilities and cohesion, among other things.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike