https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/2025/202508/20250802PM.md; last accessed: 20250803

> Opening packs of Final Fantasy x Magic: The Gathering cards with Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto and his companion, Panchu

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-08-03

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's new video with Mr. Panchu. This time, they're opening packs of Final Fantasy x Magic: The Gathering (MTG) cards, while they explain certain notable features of the game.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4fauz9Kqj-k; last accessed: 20250803

> 【開封動画】マジックザギャザリングFFコラボのコレクションブースター開封したらまさかのレアカード引いた！

## --

Mr. Panchu says that the cards that have drawings of humans, particularly, women, are valued more, and thus have a higher sales price.

In addition, he's been looking for cards that have been drawn by Master Yoshitaka Amano. And as we can see in their video, he has found several. We know that he wants Master Amano to sign his name on these cards for his collection.

Also, we do have the impression that Mr. Okamoto doesn't play MTG. However, even in my case, while I had played the game before, it appears to me that there are now more spells and other things from Final Fantasy, so that the game has become less simple.

Most likely, there are cheap cards that we can use to better understand it, just like in those years when MTG was first released, and its players had included grade school students. 

During that time, I began to learn about the game through its creature cards which included animals and dragons from the colors green and red. They had numbers for attack and defense, and could be put onto the battlefield using manas, which were the resources. Meanwhile, each wizard had 20 health points and a deck of cards called "the library."

Later on, I met other players who used other colors like white that had magic and spells that could immediately defeat a creature. 

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
