https://github.com/usbong/personal/edit/main/milestone/2025/202508/20250802/20250802.md; last accessed: 20250802

> SSS Pension Booster vs Pag-IBIG MP2 vs BPI Plan Ahead CMEPA

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-08-02

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you three financial instruments that are hailed to be profitable investments: Social Security System (SSS) Pension Booster, Modified Pag-IBIG 2 (Pag-IBIG MP2) and Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI) Plan Ahead as subjected to the Capital Markets Efficiency Promotion Act (CMEPA). The first two are government programs, while the last is a private product from BPI.

I first began to learn more about the SSS Pension Booster after reading from the news that the BPI Plan Ahead is getting subjected to the 20% Final Withholding Tax due to the CMEPA starting July 2025.

As an SSS contributor, I have, in fact, noticed that I can add more than the required monthly contribution through the voluntary [Pension Booster](https://www.sss.gov.ph/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/PRIMER-PENSION-BOOSTER.pdf). As you all know, our monthly contribution is calculated based on our salary whenever we generate our Payment Reference Number (PRN) for the month. 

With a projected Return-on-Investment (ROI) rate of 6%, I could even receive 20,000 PHP per month according to the SSS's [pension calculator](https://member.sss.gov.ph/member/pbl/pencalc/views/index.jsp) after I retire.

Furthermore, the rule indicates that while I could only receive my pension after I've retired, meaning that I've stopped working even as self-employed, the SSS [has explained](https://www.sss.gov.ph/retirement-benefit/), "At 65 years old, whether employed or not, he can already claim for retirement benefit."

The idea is that if I've contributed 1 million pesos, I could get this amount plus the 6% profit amounting to a total of 1,060,000 pesos after I've retired in the form a monthly pension or lump sum. Therefore, a 65 year old pensioner who lives until 80 years old would get back this amount at roughly 5,888 per month in a span of 15 years. In addition, those who are able to live longer are said to be continuously eligible to receive this benefit.

Meanwhile, the Pag-IBIG MP2 offers an alternative to those who can wait in five-year intervals regardless of whether they're retired or not.

The Pag-IBIG MP2 also boasts an ROI rate of at least 6% upon locking one's savings for five years and is also tax-free given that it's a program from the Philippine government.

As to the BPI Plan Ahead CMEPA, my view is that since it also requires the savings to be locked for five years, I'd say that before availing of it, it would be wise to first know if this BPI product is going to yield a net profit of 4% per annum or only 3.2% due to the CMEPA. And if the amount to be gained is high enough even with the CMEPA, then investing money in this product would be reasonable.

In summary, the idea of a lifetime benefit through the SSS pension or similar attracts people. On the other hand, there will surely be those who'd worry that getting more than the amount we had contributed even with the added 6% profit rate wouldn't be sustainable. But perhaps this is why the rules get amended and the amount to be contributed increased, so that there will still be money for those who've contributed and are now retired. In the end, not putting all our eggs in one basket, that is, having a well-diversified portfolio with investments in both the public and the private sectors, still seems to me the best way to go.


This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,


Mike
