https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260514/20260514PM.md; last accessed: 20260515

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Thoughts about Pragmata, Capcom's new game that has sold 2 million copies in only two days 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-15

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about Capcom's newly released game, Pragmata.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qp2D4SDmF4c; last accessed: 20260514

> 【祝・200万本！】カプコンのブランニュー作品が大ヒット。カプコンの今後はどうなっていく？【プラグマタ】

## --

Okamoto-san says that this new game from Capcom has sold 2 million copies in only two days, a remarkable achievement. However, he thinks that it won't anymore reach 3 million, so Okamoto-san shares with us his thoughts about the game.

First, Okamoto-san explains that he isn't sure if the game should be considered a First-person Shooter (FPS) or a Science Fiction Shooter, because it's in a completely new genre, which makes players solve puzzles, while shooting enemies at the same time.

Further, there are two protagonists in the game: One is called Hugh who uses a weapon like a handgun, and another, an AI girl who has the ability to hack. She's called Diana, although her real name is longer and difficult to remember. They've joined forces in order to defeat the boss AI. Therefore, it's a science fiction that is set on the surface of the moon.

Okamoto-san also points out that the first time that he saw it, it didn't interest him very much. However, he's been playing the game for 10 hours, and hasn't finished it yet.

Moreover, Okamoto-san admits that he gets tired of the sceneries in the game, although he likes its gameplay. Okamoto-san praises Capcom's young workers for creating this new creation, emphasizing that it isn't easy to launch a new IP, because any studio always prefers to maintain the franchises that are well-known. 

However, Okamoto-san gives the example of Dragons Dogma, which was only able to launch up to the second installment unlike the Resident Evil series, meaning that giving young people, in particular, the opportunity to create a new IP is extraordinarily rare and isn't done a lot, based on his experience working at Capcom 22 years ago. Okamoto-san, therefore, believes that Pragmata will be a new series, especially because a new story connected to its main story is easy to create. Further, it has a type of gameplay that combines puzzles and shooting elements, something that can be used to produce more combinations limitlessly. 

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that although he's never bought Capcom's shares in the 22 years since he left the studio, because he doesn't want to get involved in Insider Trading, he believes that this direction that the studio is taking makes him feel excited for its future.

Before closing, I'd like to comment as my response to Okamoto-san that I wonder if the young people who've created Pragmata are those from the prestigious universities that Okamoto-san had talked about sometime ago, so that Capcom could recruit new graduates who would help it continue to achieve success.

This is all. 

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
