https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260518/20260518PM.md; last accessed: 20260519

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Kirby and Smash Bros. Creator Masahiro Sakurai explains the value of RISK and RETURN in games

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-19

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video for last night. It's actually a video of his from three years ago where Mr. Masahiro Sakurai (Creator of Kirby and Smash Bros.) explains to us the concept of RISK and RETURN as applied in the gameplay of any game.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6gJrRpcDKS0; last accessed: 20260518

> 〈最終回〉伝説の講義を特別再現！ゲームクリエイター桜井政博さんが明言するゲーム性とは【対談】

## --

First, Sakurai-san reveals that he discovered this concept when he was at HAL Laboratory's HAL Research. Also, Okamoto-san shares that he learned it when he went to HAL's vocational school in Nagoya where he met Sakurai-san who explained this concept very clearly to the class.

Next, Sakurai-san teaches that the balance of RISK and RETURN is related to the level of fun in a game, stating that the meaning of the word fun in games can be ambiguous. He explains that if a game that has gotten a very low rating of fun means that it's boring, then what about if, however, the drawings are amusing, the training mode is enjoyable or only the controls are fun?

Therefore, we have to consider the existence of RISK and RETURN in any game, in which RISK means the level of danger that the game gives to the player, while RETURN means the process of eliminating threats. 

Sakurai-san also gives as example the game, Space Invaders, which was launched in 1978. Here he explains that the blue cannons must shoot all the invaders that are coming down, and approaching the side where the cannons are located.

Sakurai-san points out that if the cannon and the invader are in a position in which they could not shoot each other, there's no RISK, nor RETURN in this case. In addition, when the distance that separates the invader and the cannon is reduced, the RISK is increased and the possibility to obtain a return appears. Further, if this distance is reduced even more, the RISK is increased even more as well, and, for the first time, a RETURN can be obtained. 

Sakurai-san concludes that to be able to obtain a RETURN by taking a risk is the essence of the game.

This is all. I end here this part of Mr. Masahiro Sakurai's explanation about the value of RISK and RETURN in games.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
