https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202510/20251029/20251029PM.md; last accessed: 20251030

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Thoughts about the game, "Unveil The World," from NetEase Games

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-10-30

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video about the game, "Unveil The World," from NetEase Games.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WNK5PbtJiZ4; last accessed: 20251030

> 集英社ゲームズから新作ゲームアプリ出たんだが、これは…【アンベイルザ・ワールド】

## --

It's a mobile game set in the desert where there's a tower. The town survives through the components that can be obtained from this tower. Meanwhile, the protagonist is the grandson of a great man who's also a legendary figure. Although the protagonist hasn't passed the requirements to enter the tower, he ends up entering it successfully due to an undisclosed reason.

Okamoto-san thinks that it's really the type of story that Shueisha Games makes, and is also for young middle school students.

However, he explains that almost all players, whom the Gatcha system attracts, are grownups. This is why Okamoto-san prefers that the game focuses on young people who're already 18 years old and above.

Furthermore, he points out that the amount of DAU (Daily Active Users) can go up by adding middle school students, but he thinks that there won't still be many players who'll put money into the game.

Next, Okamoto-san says that the story's presentation is in manga form where words appear, and he again emphasizes that it's for the said students.

With respect to the battles, the game uses cards that can be put together, and Okamoto-san believes that it's a very spectacular aspect of the game.

However, for an old man like Okamoto-san, it's too complicated and difficult to understand. He thinks that it's a game created only for young people who have more time to play it. So as it is, it's a hurdle that prevents grownups to put money into the game.

Finally, Okamoto-san believes that the most important question is if the game attracts players or not. And he says that he doesn't agree that studio Shueisha Games should design the game to look like one from Shueisha Games.

He explains that grownups, who put money into the game, give enormous amounts so that young people no longer need to pay anything. If the game only attracts young people, Okamoto-san says that the game will get shutdown sooner rather than later.

Okamoto-san believes that using the studio's copyrights to attract grownups may solve this problem of capturing the market. But Okamoto-san advises that, most likely, the best thing to do is to create something new that doesn't look like it's from Shueisha Games at all.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike