https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202606/20260624/20260624PM.md; last accessed: 20260625

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Game Republic's "FolkSoul" Game for the PS3 Console

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-06-25

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture in 2022 about the PS3 game "FolkSoul" that is actually one of four or five games that his own studio, Game Republic, released and which he liked very much.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rh-33J06blE; last accessed: 20260624

> 【考察】隠れた名作と言われたPS3『FolksSoul −失われた伝承−』の開発についてお話します

## --

However, this game couldn't sell well, at only 40,000 copies, and Okamoto-san explains the reason for this outcome.

First, he reveals that Sony Computer Entertainment (SCE) subcontracted him to create a game for the PS3 what would come out in 2006. Okamoto-san also found out that another studio more recently established by Mr. Koji Okada, the creator famous for the Megami Tensei series, was using the same name, "Monster Kingdom," that they were using. While Okada-san was developing a new PSP game, while Okamoto-san and his team were developing one for the PS3, Okamoto-san believed that it was definitely an opportunity to collaborate, along with SCE's blessing, of course.

However, Okamoto-san admits that they weren't able to carry out this project well, getting delayed by half a year of the PS3's release. Further, the game that was already called "FolkSoul" was hardly able to help SCE sell its new console.

At this point, Okamoto-san explains that, in one word, the game was too difficult to understand: the packaging's design didn't explain what the player could do in the game, although they had placed it in the fantasy-action-adventure genre. Also, while the game was very fun for Okamoto-san, viewers who were only curious to know it, couldn't understand very quickly its gameplay. In addition, the commercial that they produced couldn't communicate its gameplay to viewers well.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that any studio must launch a best-selling work or a "home run" that would help them get more opportunities to create more works. Unfortunately, while Game Republic tried to launch one, after four or five tries, it ultimately couldn't achieve success.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
