https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260329/20260329PM.md; last accessed: 20260330

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The third part in the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious" (Part 3-2)

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-30

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video two weeks ago. It's the third part in the conversation between Okamoto-san and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious." Also, this is now part 3-2.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsRtLU2JpZE; last accessed: 20260328

> 【ナムコに直談判】一高校生がゼビウス攻略本を出版するに至った経緯を聞いてみた｜マトリックス大堀康祐さん対談Part.3

## --

Ohori-san continues telling his story, saying that he went to Namco in Kamata to convey to them his desire to create a book on Xevious. Ohori-san also gave them the VHS tapes in which he could be seen playing the game, and the Namco people watched the second video only to verify.

Furthermore, Ohori-san explains that during that time, Namco had been looking for several people to hire, although, in particular, these are the ones who'd answer "YAKI-NIKU TEI-SHOKU (cooked meat, set meal)" instead of "JAKU-NIKU KYO-SHOKU (weak meat, strong meal)."

Namco let him write the book. However, they couldn't give him the official document in which Xevious' story was written. So Ohori-san had to read it inside the office and couldn't write notes. Ohori-san also reveals that Mr. Masanobu Endo, the creator of Xevious, and Mr. Shinichiro Okamoto, developer of the physics system related to the bullet positions, were the people whom Ohori-san met in the studio.

In addition, Ohori-san recalls that Endo-san and Okamoto-san seemed very pleased, and explained to him that some data from prior games still remained in the ROM, such as, for instance, drawings of special flags in form of a bamboo shoot, aircrafts used in wars, and the Garbos character from "Galaxian." Ohori-san explains that while the game might have many bugs that the producers didn't intentionally add, they wanted Ohori-san to emphasize the concept that things that might appear mysterious aren't. For example, the metal board "Bakira" should be shot 256 times or a dog could appear in the stage.

Okamoto-san responds in the game, "SonSon," which he himself produced, there was also a character like "Bakira" that was called "Dokurocoin." It was like a homage to the influence of Xevious on him, although it had to be shot not 256 times, but only 16 times.

This is all. I end here this part of the conversation between Okamoto-san and Ohori-san.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike