https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202511/20251107/20251107AM.md; last accessed: 20251107

> Business Stories from Joi Ito and Team: The mercari Marketplace to Buy and Sell NFT

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-11-07

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Joi Ito and team's General Meeting this morning.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zKMFQGHwDLw; last accessed: 20251107

>  NFTを売買できるマーケットプレイス「メルカリNFT」とは？｜今週のweb3ニュースまとめ｜weekly gm｜2025年11月7日 

## --

As usual, Comugi-san first shared the latest news about digital currencies. For example, Bitcoin remains unstable for businesses, plunging to 99,000 USD (approx. 5.35 million PHP) per 1 BTC.

Next, he spoke about the tokenization of corporate shares. Here, he cited as example SBI, a holdings company whose stocks, Comugi-san admits, he owns none at the moment. 

Regardless, Comugi-san emphasized the many partners that the company has, as well as its goal of tokenizing the IP of these businesses, which means commoditizing and putting onto the platform their various products and services, which include games, events hosting and streaming, among others. 

With regard to the main presentation, Atty. Kosuke Nagai from the Digital Marketplace BizDev was the guest speaker. For his talk, Atty. Nagai shared key things about mercari's NFT marketplace. 

He explained that mercari's mission is to "Create value in a global marketplace where anyone can buy & sell."

He also highlighted the NFT icons that can be used in the profiles of their users. He said that there's actually a noticeable number of people who buy items like clothing that they'd put onto their NFT icons.

In addition, he shared that it's now possible to exchange the rights to the cards from the RWA Trading Cards digitally. Furthermore, the owners of the cards could "withdraw" them from the digital platform and get hold of their physical versions.

Next, Atty. Nagai explained that opening the platform so that data about the NFT's are in the public domain helps spread awareness and increase participation. He points out that, because of this, he foresees that the meaning of "open source" would grow even further from hereon.

He adds that while the copyright of the NFT's itself isn't bought and sold, ownership of their data could. He further clarifies that Japanese law doesn't allow the forced creation of NFT's in order to be bought and sold. 

In answer to Comugi-san's question about forming collaborations and the issue of certain people taking advantage of the openness of the platform, Atty. Nagai responded that it's precisely for this reason that they've been forming more collaborations with even more entities so that they could all work together. 

He says that in this way, it also becomes easier to identify who's misbehaving. Moreover, it's possible to secure the safety of the transactions, given that this initiative complies with Japanese laws, which have already taken into consideration cases such as people excessively buying and selling, as well as businesses going bankrupt.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike