https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202511/20251107/20251107PM.md; last accessed: 20251108

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Music of OUTRANKERS

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-11-08

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk in another channel called maidigitv about the music of his new game, OUTRANKERS, which has just finished development. 

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E7r6J2vLYeY; last accessed: 20251108

> 「恋しさと せつなさと 心強さと」は一度ボツに…　小室哲哉が誕生秘話語る

## --

In this video, we can see that Okamoto-san, who is the Executive Producer of the game, as well as Mr. Tetsuya Komuro, its Music Producer, and Mr. Seisho Kawamoto from studio Deragé (Deluxe Games).

Firstly, Okamoto-san and Komuro-san were asked about the time when they first met.

They said that it was 30 years ago, and Okamoto-san recounts that initially he didn't agree that Komuro-san's music was fantastic, because a ballad wasn't apt for the anime version of the fighting game, Street Fighter.

However, since Okamoto-san had also heard that Komuro-san is a very capable person, he gave him the opportunity.

Komuro-san explains that he asked Okamoto-san what music he wanted so that he could strive toward that direction.

Komuro-san describes Okamoto-san's response in this way: The sound comes, a moment passes. The words arrive with a sad but also exciting feeling.

Finally, Okamoto-san says that he's satisfied with the decision.

Also, in this occasion, Komuro-san recalls that Okamoto-san had advised him again about the direction that he wanted for the game. He admits that it was really a type of pressure, just like an illness.

More specifically, he focuses on Okamoto-san's advice about his desire to relive the 90s, even though Komuro-san says that he himself doesn't want to be recognized as someone old and passé.

As Kawamoto-san has explained, in the end, they want both the grown-ups who've lived in the 90s and the current generation of young people to both play OUTRANKERS.

Of course, there are many more things to say, but I'll need to stop here already.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike