https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260122/20260122PM.md; last accessed: 20260123

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Story of China's First Unification in the Manga Comic Book Series, "Kingdom" 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-23

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Ms. Tapi's YouTube LIVE stream video.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RvFkncTuD3A; last accessed: 20260122

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ（26年1月22日）

## --

The topic is about the manga comic book series, "Kingdom," although Okamoto-san also mentions that actually this franchise has an anime series, in addition to a film.

With respect to its comic book, there are a total of 77 comic books that tell the story of China's first unification. 

Okamoto-san points out that he likes this series so much that he reads an episode every week. In fact, he's bought the Kindle to do just that, although he also buys the printed versions, which he puts in three locations to which he goes for work or pleasure.

He reveals that its author was an engineer who decided to be the writer and artist of the comic book series.

Moreover, although the ending is already apparent to everyone, the stories and events, which occur in order to reach that point, help readers better understand the interactions between the multitude of characters in the main story.

For example, Okamoto-san says that given that there are many men and only few women, it can be guessed who'll be lovers later on, although, in many cases, what the reader thinks won't be so in the end. He gives the example of the character, Kanki, who was a Shogun and whom Okamoto-san likes for his ability to invigorate people. Unfortunately, he dies later in the story, so the reader must guess again who'll be the Shogun that will unify all of China.

This is all.

Thank you. 

Regards,

Mike