https://github.com/usbong/personal/edit/main/milestone/2025/202508/20250826/20250826PM.md; last accessed: 20250827

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The countries he doesn't want to visit again

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-08-28

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the seven countries that he doesn't want to visit again. He also provides his reasons for each one.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OegXblooaI0; last accessed: 20250827

> 【外国での最悪な体験談】旅行で二度と行きたくない国は？｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## ---

First, he says that he doesn't want to go to China as a tourist, because people deceive him with the prices of the goods. For example, a product originally cost 100,000 yen, but later after trying to walk away, the shopkeeper shouted at him, asking what price he wanted for the product. Finally, the shopkeeper told him that he'll give Okamoto-san the price of 10,000 yen. Okamoto-san says that if he wants to visit this type of place, he can go to Taiwan instead.

Second, he doesn't want to visit South Korea again, because as a Japanese, he gets bad treatment when he goes to eat at restaurants, where the waiter gives him a different menu, and which has higher prices. Moreover, he found that even at the center of the town a machine made from China is being used to count the bills, but since some of the bills enter a hidden slit, the sum becomes lower than it really is.

Third, he doesn't want to go to Spain. Although he likes the food, he can't communicate well with the people. He says that when the Japanese language can't be understood, the second language that he uses to communicate is English. However, it was quite difficult for him to be understood. Nonetheless, because of this, he's learned several phrases in the Spanish language.

This is all. Of course, there are more countries in his list, but in the end, he says that those that gave him the best memories are the places he wants to visit again.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike