https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260116/20260116PM.md; last accessed: 20260117

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Factors That Have Helped Yoshiki Okamoto Achieve Success

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-17

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Ms. Tapi's latest YouTube Live Stream video.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lye76JphOOA; last accessed: 20260116

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ（26年1月16日）

## --

The topic's about the factors that have helped Okamoto-san achieve success.

First, he says that he began working at Capcom when he was 22 years old in 1982 or 1983, more than 40 years ago, and after leaving another studio, Konami, where he had worked for a year and a half.

According to Okamoto-san, the truth is that he was already late in coming to the video game industry, because 10 years before Capcom's establishment, there was already Konami. However, since the difference in terms of the time when he entered the industry and achieved success was only 20 years at the most, Okamoto-san believes that this factor had helped him very much.

Next, he admits that he doesn't really have very outstanding skills, graduating only from a vocational school that specialized in design. 

However, he points out that his companions were invaluable for him to be able to achieve success.

He gives several names and shares some stories that he has about them. 

One is Mr. Takashi Aoki who was actually the person whose employee number was right before Okamoto-san's. Furthermore, he was a programming genius who taught him a lot. Okamoto-san explains that during that time, programmers worked very closely with the planners and designers, because before the arrival of Mr. Takashi Nishiyama from Irem, they had not used any design document, nor formal plans at Capcom.

Another name that Okamoto-san gives is Mister "Akiman," who was also a genius and the illustrator that had raised the quality of the graphics at Capcom. Okamoto-san reveals that Akiman-san had not been able to graduate from vocational school, although he showed through his designs that he had ability. He was so talented that Okamoto-san relied on him on all design-related work, because in those days, Okamoto-san still had to do both the jobs of the designer and the planner. He also says that Akiman-san had mentored Ms. Kinu Nishimura when she came to Capcom as an illustrator after not being able to enter university.

Another person who's helped Okamoto-san a lot is Mr. Noritaka Funamizu, who actually came to Capcom after getting advice from a friend who thought that Funamizu-san was suitable for the studio when he was just 18 years old.

Next, Okamoto-san gives the name of Mister "Tomichin," who had worked in the fighting games X-men vs Street Fighter as well as the Street Fighter Zero series.

There's also Mr. Akira Nishitani who was the planner for games like Final Fight and Street Fighter II. Okamoto-san called him on the phone when he interviewed him, and without seeing him face-to-face, he approved his employment at Capcom. He currently has his own studio called Arika.

Afterward, Okamoto-san gives the name of Ms. OkanP who began her work at Capcom when she was around 22 years old. Okamoto-san reveals that in the beginning, she was with SNK, and he thinks that she had worked as a color designer there, but when she transferred to Capcom, it was found out that she could create music as well. Okamoto-san didn't work as much with Ms. OkanP, because there was another boss who made her work for his department. The names of both Mister "Iyahara" and Mister "Tetsu" were mentioned by Okamoto-san.

Furthermore, Okamoto-san adds Ms. Yoko Shimomura who's now a very famous musician after passing time at Capcom.

Another name that Okamoto-san gives is Mr. Shinji Mikami who is well-known for the Biohazard series, although, he says, at the start Mikami-san didn't pass the interview to enter the studio. Mr. Tokuro Fujiwara, another planner and designer like Okamoto-san, mentored Mikami-san about Capcom's system, after which he went to Okamoto-san's department who thanks Fujiwara-san for the blessing.

Finally, Okamoto-san wants to mention that Capcom's President, Mr. Kenzo Tsujimoto, helped him a lot by letting him do what he wanted. Although at the start, Tsujimoto-san advised him a bit, something that Okamoto-san didn't like, because it reminded him of his experience at Konami, in the end, he decided not to interfere with the video game development aspect, and instead focused on bringing money to the studio. 

Okamoto-san concludes that he had been helped by good friends, and thanks everyone for helping him achieve success.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike