https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260116/20260116-2.md; last accessed: 20260115

> Prof. Joi Ito and Team's General Meeting (2026-01-16): Ethereum's Future and Digital Asset Treasury (DAT)'s New Business Direction

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-16

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Prof. Joi Ito and team's general meeting this morning about the recent developments in Web3 technology and the people behind them.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VFHIviiRRKg; last accessed: 20260116

>   【最新web3情報LIVE】國光宏尚氏が登場！イーサリアムの未来と、トレジャリー企業の新しい形｜weekly gm｜2026年1月16日 

## --

Among Comugi-san's usual [news reports](https://dalab-dg.notion.site/2026-01-16-Weekly-Roundup-gm-2e999677e8338082bc9fe7bcc6eb4853), what I'd like to direct your attention to is the report from Nada News about the "$40,000 bet on 'The U.S. will attack Iran tonight' — one trader's wager on Polymarket."

While not a lot of people may realize it, in my opinion, we all make bets everyday. Whether it be the food that we'd eat or how we'd want to spend our free time, we make predictions about what would best satisfy us. The outcome of which inevitably affects our lives, even our longevity. 

In this regard, I found that creating a list of tasks to do and predicting how many and which ones I'd be able to tick-off in a given day or alloted time is a greatly rewarding experience, especially when I am able to predict right. 

I believe that it's a simple form of exercise that could teach us time management as well as how wrong or right we could be whenever we make predictions.

With respect to this morning's presentation, Mr. Hironao Kunimitsu spoke about his own predictions about the future of Ethereum, which, as we'll come to understand, is now inexorably tied to DAT's business direction moving forward.

First, he shares a brief introduction of himself, saying that he had formerly worked at the video game company, Gumi, in 2007. He continues that in 2014, the company went public and was listed in the Tokyo stock exchange. It was later in 2021 when he resigned from the company.

Since then, he's been focusing on Web3 and cryptocurrencies. He says that Gumi launched a cryptocurrency fund amounting to 1.7 billion yen in San Francisco and which he was part of, in addition to providing financial advice and working on an entertainment service called Midtown, which releases Web3 games that make use of well-known IPs like Captain Tsubasa.

In January of 2025, TORICO, the company that established DAT, began to set its sights on the cryptocurrency, Ethereum.

Kunimitsu-san explains that previously, companies only bought and held Bitcoins, another cryptocurrency. He gives as examples, MicroStrategy and MetaPlanet, which have bought 15 trillion yen and 1 billion yen of Bitcoin, respectively.

Furthermore, while either Bitcoin or Ethereum could give yields of as low as 0% to as high as 55% through a mutual fund, where many people pool together their money in order to make investments, TORICO has opted to go for Ethereum instead of Bitcoin.

Kunimitsu-san explains that this is because Ethereum is aiming for much higher returns than Bitcoin by not only keeping more and more of the cryptocurrency, which could only yield a low 3% profit, but also actually selling them to earn even more.

Kunimitsu-san says that last year, TORICO invested in ETF, Stablecoin, DAT and Hyparity (name ambiguous) given that cryptocurrencies were weak profit-wise that year with Bitcoin at -6% and Ethereum at -10%, while S&P was at 18%, Nikkei at 25%-28% and gold at a high 60%.

He further explains that last year, more people were using Stablecoin and Real World Assets (RWA), such that the mass adoption of these digital assets has helped build the base infrastructure that relies on Blockchain technology and is also one that can be used even by cryptocurrencies.

It's for this reason that Kunimitsu-san predicts that the next digital asset that people would come to adopt is the Ethereum cryptocurrency.

Kunimitsu-san explains by comparing Ethereum with Bitcoin. He says that, historically, the more people there are who buy Bitcoin, the higher its price becomes. On the flip said, Bitcoin's price decreases as more people sell it.

At this point, Kunimitsu-san raises the question: Why are cryptomining businesses selling their Bitcoins now in the first place? 

Kunimitsu-san reveals that these companies actually need to pay for the cost of having built the data centers that house their servers, as well as maintaining them, which includes electricity bills and human resources-related expenses. 

Furthermore, they follow a four-year cycle, wherein they time their cost-cutting, which cuts their expenses in half, with their selling of Bitcoin. 

As the value of Bitcoin rises again, they re-adjust the expenses that they incur from these costs accordingly.

However, Kunimitsu-san points out that Ethereum is 10 times more lucrative than their cryptomining services due to macro economics, which involves the money market.

He explains that as the share value of giant corporations decreases, the value of things like real estate, gold and Bitcoin increases. Therefore, cryptomining businesses could earn more by applying the same technique not only in Bitcoin, but also in other types of assets.

Kunimitsu-san continues that he believes that people are now moving more toward AI and gold, because they currently provide higher yields, while interest toward Bitcoin is waning. Gold, he says, is 10 times more profitable than Bitcoin. 

In fact, he believes in this idea so much that he predicts that the use of this four-year cycle by cryptomining business in their buying and selling of Bitcoin is now over.

In conclusion, he bets that he can make 10% to 20% profit out of Ethereum.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike