https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260423/20260423PM.md; last accessed: 20260424

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Rolex Watches

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-24

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about Rolex watches.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AHMIOx_eeow; last accessed: 20260423

> 【中国経済衰退か】ロレックスの買いやすくなった理由は…｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, he admits that he's already talked about this topic three times, but just like previous times, he wants to reiterate the value of these Rolex watches.

Next, Okamoto-san reveals that the Rolex watches have been easier to buy these days. In fact, two or so days ago, he had visited a store in Johor similar to the Sogo department store to ask the shopkeeper if he could buy a Rolex.

The shopkeeper answered that he only had one, which would cost him 9.4 million yen. Okamoto-san decided to buy it, and after around five minutes in the storeroom, the shopkeeper returned and told him that the truth was the he had another Rolex. It was the "GMT Master 2 White Gold," which the Chinese like very much.

So Okamoto-san bought it, because he wanted to own it. He admits that he's bought four Rolex watches in two days impulsively. However, he explains that these watches are really very invaluable, and an owner can use it to look at the time, among other things, while its price value continues to go up. This means that Rolex watches only go up in terms of price and don't go down. This is why Okamoto-san says that it's a very recommendable investment.

Finally, Okamoto-san recounts that the economies of the countries in Southeast Asia and others are expected to rise, so Okamoto-san foresees that there will also be a supply shortage of Rolex watche. He, therefore, believes that the price of these watches will go up.

Before ending, as my response to Okamoto-san's advice to write a comment, I'd like to say that the same with what Okamoto-san has shared with us previously, we should take care not to lose the watch. I recall an instance when my family and I went to Harbin in China as tourists, and an old women in our tourist group lost her Rolex watch. Her husband didn't seem to mind too much given that she was frequently helpless. Another incident that I recall is when my father and I went to a party, and, again, an old women lost her Rolex watch. This time, her husband was very angry, and was looking at me like I was the thief who had stolen it. These incidents occurred about 10 years ago.

This is all. 

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
