https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260109/20260109PM.md; last accessed: 20260110

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Changes that Yoshiki Okamoto Plans to Make after Retiring

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-10

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and team's Live YouTube video last night about the changes that Okamoto-san plans to make after retiring.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ybouc3c7w-Y; last accessed: 20260109

> 【日程変更】ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ(26年1月9日) 

## --

He says that while he has only 1.5 years before his retirement, he's already thought about what he'll do with respect to his income, because as he's explained, he wouldn't get any income anymore upon retiring.

Furthermore, he reiterates that he doesn't want to get his pension from the Japanese government.

So he says that he wants to move to another house. He explains that he currently has to pay 4 million yen each month, because there's always some parts of the house that need to be repaired like, for example, his pool, which he could no longer use. He thinks that there are too many of these expenses. In fact, he hasn't used his pool for three months due to some problem in the water pipe, among other things.

Next, he doesn't want to buy more watches, and is thinking about selling several. However, he explains that he actually likes to use his watches, and he knows that their value continues to go up. But they don't multiply and earn more money unlike if he were to convert them into cash and use the money in a business or project.

Okamoto-san also reveals that he wants to do the same thing with his other possessions such as his cars, bags and shoes.

Moreover, he wants to reduce his expenses for high-class food. He says that last week he had eaten two times at this type of restaurant with his colleague, and had spent for two people 70,000 yen each time.

Okamoto-san also says he's ending his expenses related to putting money into applications through in-app purchases. He says that he spends up to 4 million yen each month for these payments.

Despite all this, Okamoto-san wants to clarify that he'll not stop being a gamer and will continue to play games. He also thinks about creating an indie game, even though it won't be very big nor loud as before. Finally, he wants to continue his YouTube channels, although he'd likely not be traveling as much during that time.

This is all. Of course, there are many more things that Okamoto-san has mentioned, but I'll need to stop here. 

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike