https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202510/20251031/20251031AM.md; last accessed: 20251101

> Web 3.0 and Cryptocurrencies Stories from Joi Ito and Team: Report for the Week | Bhutan uses Etheleum in its ID system

> Redactor: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Fecha de publicación: El 31 de october de 2025

## Last updated: 2025-11-01T09:21

## --

Dear friends,

This morning, I attended Mr. Joi Ito and team's General Meeting about the recent developments in the world of cryptocurrencies. 

As always, Mr. Comugi shared news about the current state of cryptocurrencies, which use Web 3.0 technology.

For example, he had news about IBM, which has chosen Stablecoin to create an ecosystem using its digital assets platform. This platform has been created on top of Blockchain technology so that banks, governments, businesses and more could securely manage these digital assets. More specifically, it's a compliance tool to do transaction routing, payments, user verifications and also a countermeasure against moneylaundering.

Next, Ms. Aya Miyaguchi from the Etheleum Foundation presented their activities in Bhutan. She says that it's a country whose people are the happiest in the world, and also has zero carbon footprint. Furthermore, its government currently uses an ID system to provide services related to it.

Given that the cryptocurrency Etheleum also has elements like, for instance, it's open source so that the community itself can contribute to its growth without being led by only a small group of people, Ms. Aya and her team have decided to work with Bhutan.

Joi-sensei also shares that security is really important these days, especially when we talk about cryptocurrencies so that it's reasonable to grow a country that possesses the ideal conditions stated above, along with Web 3.0 technology.

Ms. Aya adds that Bhutanese people speak English, and some of them can go to Japan to study, and then return to their home country to work with the government and contribute to this initiative.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike