https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202510/20251031/20251031PM.md; last accessed: 20251101

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Story of Capcom as Told by Yoshiki Okamoto

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-11-01

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Ms. Tapi's YouTube Live Video last night.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PlgmDPLx8Cc; last accessed: 20251031

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ（25年10月31日）

## --

It's about the story of Capcom as told by Okamoto-san.

First, Okamoto-san explains that the name Capcom is from "Capsule Computer," and "Japan" was added to its official name in order to distinguish it from other studios. Also, it was established 10 years after Konami, where Okamoto-san had worked.

With respect to the business, at the start, the company had brought games from other countries to Japan, in particular, Space Invaders, which made a lot of money for the company when it was put in coffee shops.

Okamoto-san also recounts that a long time ago, there was a way of creating more shops, for example, pachinko shops, after making money in one and using the profit from that shop that had made a lot of money. Through this, more shops could be created.

However, the bosses at Capcom and even Okamoto-san discovered that the games would have a drop in sales after making a lot of money. So they thought that they needed new games right away.

At the time, Okamoto-san was at Capcom with Mr. Tokuro Fujiwara, who was 22 years old, and they talked about their dreams as well as the direction that they wanted for the company. They decided that they wanted their goal to be Namco. It wasn't Nintendo, because it was too far for them to reach.

Okamoto-san says that he himself wanted to focus on arcade games, because it was a lot more fun to create them. He explains that playing in the arcades is really playing with 100 yen to see if the player could win or not.
 
On the other hand, when the Famicom console was launched, Nintendo presented it as a console that gave players the opportunity to play many times.

Okamoto-san reveals that the interns at Konami could make the studio's well-known titles like Gradius easily. Meanwhile, Fujiwara-san at Capcom also worked hard at creating games for this console.

Finally, Okamoto-san says that this is still only half of his entire talk, but he should already stop here. As always, thanks very much.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike