https://github.com/usbong/personal/edit/main/milestone/2025/202508/20250829/20250829PM.md; last accessed: 20250830

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Who is Mr. Masahiro Sakurai?

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-08-30

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the video from Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto about his conversation with Mr. Masahiro Sakurai, the famous creator of Kirby and Smash Bros., among others. But first, I'd like to tell you that it's a video that was released two years ago.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gkMDT5dQJeg; last accessed: 20250830

> 〈第１回〉ゲームクリエイターになったワケ！桜井政博さんの人生を深堀してみました【対談】 

## --

Sakurai-san started with the hadoken, the well-known projectile from Ryu in Street Fighter, although it should be noted the way in which he formed his hands.

He says that it's what we can see in the pixel art, and it seems to him that maybe the original idea had been with open hands like what Okamoto-san pointed out that Mr. Akira Nishitani does. Sakurai-san supposes that it's the result of cropping images in order to conserve memory. Okamoto-san clarifies that he and his team did what was possible.

Next, Sakurai-san reveals that he began to work in HAL Laboratory (HAL) after graduating from secondary school. He thought that it was better to immerse himself in work, rather than to first go to university and then look for work afterward.

Moreover, during that time, he was able to become a game designer after only a short period of time, something rare these days.

Sakurai-san also says that he put in his job application to work in HAL an example of a design plan that he had for a game. He says that when he was 16 or 17 years old, he had thought about creating his own games after playing the games that were available at the time.

Further, he likes playing games that other people don't want. He explains that it's because they're educational for him. Okamoto-san adds that we also need to know the reason why a game has sold tremendously.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike