https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260129/20260129PM.md; last accessed: 20260130

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Age and Style of Clothing

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-30

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Ms. Tapi's YouTube Live Stream video last night.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O3x2nEmPOig; last accessed: 20260129

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ（26年1月29日）

## --

The topic is about age and style of dressing.

First, Okamoto shares that he's returned to Malaysia for his work, which is why he's wearing a coat or a suit. He also points out that the truth is that he hardly wears this type of clothing these days. He thinks that it's only once per year. 

Further, he says that although he needed to put on a suit when he had worked at Konami, afterward, in another studio, Capcom, he wore something more casual. However, he reveals that when Mr. Takashi Nishiyami came to the studio, they, including Okamoto-san, began to wear something more formal like suits.

Okamoto-san also recalls that after the failure of his own studio, Game Republic, he didn't have a lot money, so he had gone to "Nomi no ichi," a flea market, in Shinagawa to buy clothes. He says that he had bought a set of clothes for 1,000 yen. He also admits that up until now he has one of them as his memorabilia during that time in his life.

Next, Okamoto-san says that previously he had over 1,600 pairs of shoes, include a pair that his brother had given him as a gift. While he no longer has them, he's thinking about collecting again several until 100 pairs.

Okamoto-san also says that he cuts his hair short in this way so that it won't be too big on the sides. He recalls Mister Akiman who had a distinct hairstyle with a ponytail when he came to Capcom for his interview, which Akiman-san passed.

Furthermore, he emphasizes that it's important to also adjust one's fashion style with the current times. Therefore, the makeup of the past isn't anymore for women of today. 

Finally, Okamoto-san mentions that Ms. Tapi is very cute right now, and recounts that when they had gone to Singapore, she had worn clothing like the one for students from high schools that are exclusively for girls, although she's already approaching 39 years old. Still, given that she doesn't want to get hit by sunlight, she always uses an umbrella. Okamoto-san thinks that she puts her life in danger 60% more because of this.

This is all. Of course, there are many more things to say but I should already stop here.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike