https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20250913/20250913PM.md; last accessed: 20250914

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Board game Bomb Buster wins Germany's Game of the Year Awards

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-09-14

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's announcement that the board game, "Bomb Busters," has won Germany's Game of the Year Awards.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GjxnXIgCngw; last accessed: 20250913

> What is truly important for game creators when creating board games Congratulations to Bomb Bust... 

## --

He says that it's the first time that a team from Japan has won the prize, which was established in 1979.

According to Okamoto-san's explanation, the game is about a bomb that players would need to disarm. 

In addition, before winning the prize, it's said that its creator, Mr. Hisashi Hayashi, had released over 50 games known even outside Japan.

As a game producer himself, Okamoto-san provides several reasons why the game is fantastic.

First, he admits that he doesn't like its cover illustration, because it didn't attract him at first. On the other hand, it surely had attracted a lot of people, because the game won the prize.

Next, he says that it's a multiplayer and cooperative type of game, which means that there's no enemy, and everyone has to work together.

Also, he points out that at times we find a type of game that makes the loser wait for everyone else to finish, so that he ends up doing something else like, for instance, read manga while the other players continued playing. For this reason, Okamoto-san says that it's better that everyone starts and finishes together so as not to waste anyone's time.

He also reveals that Hayashi-san, an ex-engineer at KOEI, designs and plays with his spouse and friend continuously in order to improve his creations. According to Okamoto-san, he releases four or six games each year, a feat that is difficult to achieve even for Okamoto-san.

Finally, Okamoto-san says that he really wants to be a board game creator, and he'd be happy if we ourselves would want to be one too. 

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike