https://github.com/usbong/personal/tree/main/milestone/2025/202507/20250715/20250715PM.md; last accessed: 20250716

> Outrankers is the new game from Yoshiki Okamoto and team

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-07-15

## --

Dear friends,

Last night, Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto launched two videos. One is about Monster Hunter NOW, and another is about "Outrankers," the new project that he and his team have just finished development.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Ayn-RZ_fag; last accessed: 20250716

> みなさまお待たせしました！カミツクプロジェクト遂に完成です 

## --

Today, I'd like to share with you the announcement from Okamoto-san's team about Outrankers. In the video, we can also recognize Mr. Akira Nishitani and Mr. Noritaka Funamizu who are with Okamoto-san.

Okamoto-san says that they haven't launched a new video about this project since a year ago, but as Funamizu-san and Nishitani-san have said, they had already understood the goal of the project and what they only needed to do was to finish the tasks in increments.

Moreover, they explain in the video the meaning of the official title of the project and the story behind it. Funamizu-san says that there was a list of possible names in which they had chosen one that Okamoto-san also agreed with, which is how they ended up with the project's name being "Outrankers." The word, "rankers," means fighters who want to achieve high ranks, while the word, "out," points out that these fighters don't obey the law.

Nishitani-san adds that he and Funamizu-san had wanted to go back to the meaning of the fighting game, especially for them, and they wondered which parts they would improve if they were given an opportunity to create a new one. The result of which is this project.

Meanwhile, Okamoto-san emphasizes that the battles have to be simplified using less buttons, and that it's necessary to maintain the balance among the fighters and their teams. He also advocates the idea of self-improvement by immersing oneself in more battles, and that putting money into the game helps players reach high ranks, among other things.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike