https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260404/20260404PM.md; last accessed: 20260405

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The third part in the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious" (Part 3-3)

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-05

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video two weeks ago. It's the third part in the conversation between Okamoto-san and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious." Also, this is now part 3-3.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsRtLU2JpZE; last accessed: 20260404

> 【ナムコに直談判】一高校生がゼビウス攻略本を出版するに至った経緯を聞いてみた｜マトリックス大堀康祐さん対談Part.3

## --

Ohori-san recounts that he was able to write the book thanks to the help of the developers from Namco (It wasn't yet Bandai Namco at the time). Furthermore, because of this, Ohori-san was able to share the story of Xevious. He also recalls that he worked until the evening two times in order to finish the book.

In addition, what Ohori-san is showing us is a copy of the book, and he apologizes if the text isn't too clear. Still, Okamoto-san praises him for it, because the layout of the book was so well done that it was really easy to understand.

Okamoto-san then wonders if Xevious was the first masterpiece that Mr. Masanobu Endo, the creator of Xevious, did. Ohori-san answers that it probably is.

Next, Ohori-san talks about a "game boutique" in Takadabajo where his rival, Mr. Naohiko Nakagane, played. He admits that Nakagane-san helped him write the book, revealing that Nakagane-san got to play Xevious earlier than him and didn't teach him everything, but instead made him notice more what was happening like in the case of the bamboo shoot that would appear.

Moreover, Ohori-san shares that upon publishing the book, some people, whom he didn't know, bought it and thanked him, an impressive thing for him, because the usual case was that it was he who had to thank them.

This is all. I end here this part of the conversation between Okamoto-san and Ohori-san.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike