https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260508/20260508PM.md; last accessed: 20260509

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The YouTube Live Video for May 8, 2026

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-09

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture during his YouTube live video yesterday with Ms. Tanu and Ms. Tapi.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KmZOmqVuos8; last accessed: 20260508

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ（26年5月8日）

## --

In the video, Okamoto-san begins by asking Ms. Tanu about her dreams or aspirations. She responds that it is to be happy.

Okamoto-san then recounts that when he was working at Capcom, he also wanted all the workers to be able to be happy. However, it seemed to him that this desire couldn't be fulfilled, so he left the studio in order to establish a new one of his own.

Okamoto-san explains that it was because despite the achievements of Street Fighter II, he found that he couldn't attain financial success (FIRE). Further, he points out that many outstanding workers at Capcom worried about this situation, and some decided to also leave the studio. Okamoto-san names Mr. Akira Nishitani as well as Mr. Shinji Mikami. 

Okamoto-san also clarifies that he continued to remain at Capcom, because each time a producer or a person in-charge of a project left, the rest, who would remain, had to take on more workload. Okamoto-san also reveals that Capcom's president, Mr. Kenzo Tsujimoto, had convinced him that his salary of 6 million yen per year was already the highest in the industry.

Okamoto-san shares that when he began his job at Capcom, the studio offered him a rather high salary reaching up to 350,000 yen per month, because, in those days, people knew that other studios offered high salaries in order to attract applicants. However, Okamoto-san admits that the industry was still young, such that he and his colleagues did only what they thought was necessary to create products in the form of games for the studio, even without using formal documents or plans.

Moreover, he says that before the arrival of Mr. Shinji Mikami at Capcom, Okamoto-san's team didn't have university graduates. They were graduates from vocational schools or even only high school. Okamoto-san recalls that there was an applicant who didn't pass, because Mikami-san didn't approve him for the simple reason that the applicant didn't get enough points in Capcom's exam. However, people from Capcom's human resources called up Okamoto-san about the incident, and after reinvestigating the applicant, they let him pass in the end.

Okamoto-san mentions that he left Capcom 20 years ago, and after establishing his own studio, which would later go bankrupt, he achieved his great financial success when he launched with his team the mobile game, Monster Strike. He thus believes that among well-known producers such as Mr. Hironobu Sakaguchi and Mr. Masahiro Sakurai, who also left their previous studio in order to establish a new one, Okamoto-san himself is the person who's achieved the most success.

Before closing, Okamoto-san answers his viewers' questions including one in which he shares his thoughts about Nintendo's new Star Fox game. He says that Mr. Shigeru Miyamoto, the great personality whom Okamoto-san treats as a god and with whom he doesn't want to fight, will be in-charge of a position very close to the director, and he thinks that maybe Star Fox could be Miyamoto-san's last, although Okamoto-san hopes that Miyamoto-san could still release more. Okamoto-san concludes by saying that, of course, he wants to play any game from Miyamoto-san.

This is all. There are more things that Okamoto-san has said in the video, but I should stop here already.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike