https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260417/20260417PM.md; last accessed: 20260417

> The Way to Completely Eradicate Cockroaches 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-17

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you a solution to a common problem among many households: the cockroach.

Regardless of shape and size, this vile pest has managed to breed and persist since time immemorial. No matter how many we kill and in whatever manner it may be, these cockroaches always seem to reappear time and time again.

But I will tell you that I have finally eradicated this malign pest in my entire room, where I also cook, eat and sleep. I used no insect-killing sprays nor anything of the sort, but focused only on two things: sugar-rich rice and the cockroach's nests.

First, during my fight against these cockroaches, I had noticed that a grain of rice attracts them like a beacon, such that in a span of about eight hours, you are bound to come across one cockroach close-by a grain of rice. Therefore, eliminating all grains of rice inside the room takes away the beacon, which is the cause of their coming.

Next, I looked for the places where the cockroaches laid their eggs and crushed every single one of their eggs dead. In particular, these places would include wooden chairs where their eggs aren't easily visible as well as clothing or even curtains that use a type of fabric that is sticky, such as cotton.

Other than the cockroaches that had managed to enter through an open window or door, I no longer have this problem anymore. 

Before I end, I'd like to add that another insect that can also turn into an annoying pest is the ant. In this case, the most effective solution that I have found is to employ a spider that is carefully positioned near the cave where the ants come out from, looking for the place where there is something sweet.

This is all. 

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
