https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260417/20260417PM.md; last accessed: 20260418

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The YouTube Live Video for April 17, 2026

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-18

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's YouTube Live video. The topic is the 007 movie series.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wr2WgnFbiD0; last accessed: 20260417

> 【007映画を語ろう】ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ（26年4月17日）

## --

First, Okamoto-san jokes that he's gone back to Japan recently and reveals that each time he returns to Japan he gains two or three kilograms more. However, he's now in Malaysia again.

Next, Okamoto-san recounts that the new 007 game is in third-person view and he thinks that it'll be fantastic. Okamoto-san recalls that the 007 for Nintendo's N64 was highly recommended, although it made use of a first-person view. 

Okamoto-san also says that there are a total of 25 films in the 007 film series, and he's collected several in Blu-ray, though nowadays it's already very easy to see them through the internet. He explains that he collects them, because he really likes this series.

Furthermore, he points out that a phrase widely know and he likes very much is "Bond, James Bond." Also, in the 1960s, the films protagonized by James Bond or 007, a British spy, were awesome, showing several gadgets for spying such as a watch that could fire bullets or a ballpoint pen that could be used as a bomb. Okamoto-san reiterates the story about the Rolex watch "Submariner," which James Bond showed off after diving, and also while wearing a tuxedo. Okamoto-san is happy to share with us that he's bought a Relox last month.

Okamoto-san says that the films starred by Sean Connery up to Daniel Craig were his most favorites. He reveals that Sean Connery was Scottish who had been very apt for the role, because James Bond's enemy became a lot more apparent. However, Okamoto-san says that Sean Connery ended his acting career as James Bond when he punched the director. Okamoto-san explains that it was because the director was too ambiguous in directing the scenes. Sean Connery passed away at 90 years old.

In the case of Daniel Craig, it seemed that he was a little short at 175 cm, but when the movie was well-received, he was able to play the part in the next films of the series, costing up to 4 billion yen each.

Finally, Okamoto-san invites Ms. Tanu to appear on camera. He asks her if she knows James Bond, Sean Connery and others. She admits that she doesn't. Meanwhile, Ms. Tapi listens to Okamoto-san's stories during the live video. Okamoto-san says that Ms. Tanu cannot yet replace Ms. Tapi as his secretary, although every morning she leaves the house with Okamoto-san at six o'clock sharp to take a stroll for an hour. In addition, she drives and can carry a bag.

This is all. Of course, there are many more things to say, but I must stop here already.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
