https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260302PM.md; last accessed: 20260303

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Why Yoshiki Okamoto doesn't advice buying real estate

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-03

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about his reason why he doesn't advise buying real estate.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xFFKQlgTSJQ; last accessed: 20260302

> 【購入or賃貸論争】不動産の購入はおすすめしない一番の理由は…｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, he explains that he isn't against the selling of a house if its value has gone up. But what he is against is the selling of the house to receive the same value that the person had paid, because it hasn't gone up at all. He thinks that it's better to invest in stocks instead.

Further, Okamoto-san points out that we also have to consider the interest in the loan to buy a house for 30 years. Also, after having paid in full, another thing that we have to think about is that the cement, among other parts of the house should be repaired.

He gives the example of a room that he's bought in Malaysia. For a month, the elevator in the apartment couldn't be used due to the rain, something very difficult to imagine in Japan. Another example that he gives is his huge house that always has a problem like, for instance, the swimming pool's water leaks, and which costs him 4 million yen each month to resolve.

Also, in Japan, Okamoto-san explains that if an apartment has been bought for 100 million yen, due to deterioration over time, the value goes down even further. And when a person has bought it for a very low price, it can be expected that he doesn't have the money to rebuild it, so, as a result, it becomes a slum area for the poor.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that he doesn't advise buying a house, although people do it, because they think that they'll be satisfied with it. However, Okamoto-san reveals that the truth is that it's better to pay rent, because the person can move out easily if he wants to, especially when the house has gotten old.

This is all. 

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike