https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202511/20251103/20251103PM.md; last accessed: 20251104

> Life Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Burial Problem Caused by a Foreigner

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-11-04

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the news that a foreigner who has come to Japan is proclaiming that he's burying the dead in the country, something prohibited in Japan, thereby causing several problems.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8EqnrO2LPHA; last accessed: 20251104

> 外国人による勝手な土葬問題。日本は多文化共生を受け入れるべきか？｜岡本吉起塾Ch


## --

Okamoto-san says that people, who don't follow the rules of Japan, should return to their countries, even though the reason may be related to religion.

He also points out that any country would have its own rules and that the people, including the Japanese, who are there should follow these rules.

Furthermore, Okamoto-san says that when he was around three years old, he had seen the burial of his grandfather. He says that he thought that his grandfather was still alive inside the coffin while it was being lowered inside the ground. He reveals that he himself doesn't want people to do this to him.

Okamoto-san adds that if we look at Japanese history, the dead had been burned during the Edo period, and during the next period, the Meiji, this activity was temporarily stopped. But since there wasn't enough land for burial and due to the problems related to health caused by this, after two years, cremation was returned.

Moreover, Okamoto-san emphasizes that the smell of the dead is terrible. He says that Japan has high humidities so that things deteriorate much faster. Also, incidents caused by viruses and bacterias do occur, and if they mixed with the water in the soil, the town will surely have a big problem.

He explains that in the desert, the people who believe in Islam can bury the dead in the sand. But this isn't the case in Japan. This is because they've done this before too, but there are now too many people, and there isn't anymore enough land.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that he doesn't want a foreigner to come to Japan and require people to follow the rules of another country, because it doesn't help Japan at all.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike