https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260402/20260402PM.md; last accessed: 20260403

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The updated Japanese rule that allows foreigners to drive in Japan

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-03

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the Japanese rule that allows foreigners to drive in Japan using the same license that's been approved in their countries.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GyluzVeFRtc; last accessed: 20260402

> 外免切替のルール、絶対におかしいで！｜岡本吉起塾CH

## --

Okamoto-san recounts that this rule has been amended to add a condition that no longer allows the use of a hotel address or a friend's, so the foreigner should indicate an address that says that he's a resident in Japan.

Further, Okamoto-san explains the reason why foreigners want a Japanese driver's license. He says that it's because the person who owns this license can use it in any country. So Japan is becoming stricter in giving out these licenses.

Okamoto-san recalls that previously, the exam had 10 questions about certain drawings, and if the student could answer 7 of these, he passed the exam. Also, it's said that 90% of the students could pass it.

This time, there are now 50 questions and the student should have a 90% correct answer rate. In addition, the current exam lasts about 15 minutes. However, it seems that it's too difficult for both the Japanese and the foreigners.

Okamoto-san also reveals that in Malaysia, there are counterfeit licenses that could be bought. However, if this were the case, Okamoto-san wonders why people should obtain a license in the first place.

Meanwhile, in Japan, according to Okamoto-san, the two countries that have the most people who want the Japanese license are: first, Vietnam, and second, China.

Moreover, Okamoto-san points out that traffic accidents that occur involving foreigners have increased 40% in Japan. He also gives examples like running away for drunk driving, driving in the opposite direction on the highway. These examples aren't committed by Japanese people outside Japan at all, so, as a result, Japan should be stricter in allowing foreigners to drive in the country.

Okamoto-san also says that he's passed the driving exam in Malaysia in which he had to choose between Bahasa-Malay, English or Mandarin for the language. Okamoto-san chose English. Further, when he can't use his address in Malaysia, Okamoto-san returns to Japan to get an international license every year.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that in the end, Japanese taxes are used for these rules that foreigners don't follow, so he reiterates that when a person is in Japan, he should follow Japanese rules.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike