https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260324/20260324PM.md; last accessed: 20260325

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The continuation of the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious" (Part 2-3)

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-25

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Part 2-3 of the continuation of the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious."

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Whjc8J9REN0; last accessed: 20260324

> 【まるでアスリート】ゲーセン狂いの高校受験理由がヤバすぎる｜マトリックス大堀康祐さん対談Part.2

## --

First, Ohori-san clarifies that actually the maximum score that could be attained in Xevious wasn't 10 million, but 9.9990 million points. Furthermore, Ohori-san admits to having taken around six and a half hours the first time that he accomplished this task.

Okamoto-san then computes that Ohori-san spent only 100 yen to start with three planes and play six and half hours. Moreover, when Ohori-san had to go to the toilet, he had to let his remaining planes get destroyed. This also means that there wasn't another person who played for Ohori-san while he was in the toilet.

Ohori-san explains that in Xevious, when a plane is destroyed, the player must return to the first part of the stage. Thus, he only went to the toilet when there were few enemies and the stage moved slowly. Further, he didn't drink plenty of water, the same with athletes who play sports.

Afterward, Okamoto-san recalls that this pattern of temporarily leaving the game in order to go to the toilet was common among players who wanted to get high scores. He also recounts that some players played from late in the evening to dawn, and put their planes in a safe part of the stage when they went to the toilet.

Next, Okamoto-san shares that when the location test of another game, Exed Exes, was taking place, there was a person who beat his high score. Ohori-san responds that it wasn't him, but his friend, Kobayashi-san from studio Exchanger, who used a strategy to beat the game and who ended up writing the magazine, "Basic Magazine."

Ohori-san recalls that the game center was located west of Shinjuku train station, and, in addition, was very close to another that was known for Virtua Fighter. In addition, he explains that in Exed Exes, enemy bullets could initially be destroyed, and during that time, the button wasn't pressed, but was rubbed.

However, Ohori-san says that the day came when the bullets could no longer be destroyed. Okamoto-san explains that it was because the game center couldn't make money if it allowed this feature, though it was surely an interesting design. So the developers changed the game, reducing the number of bullets from the enemies instead.

Ohori-san thinks that Exed Exes was really very interesting for having varieties of enemies, which included the motherships. Okamoto-san also admits that another fun element that couldn't be added was the angle of firing the bullets. However, in the end, the developers decided that the game would become too difficult for the player.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that although the attacks in Exed Exes weren't fun, those in Xevious, on the other hand, became a lot more fun.

This is all. I end here this part of the conversation between Okamoto-san and Ohori-san. 

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike