https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260429/20260429PM.md; last accessed: 20260430

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Movie studio Toei has entered the video game industry

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-30

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the announcement that movie studio Toei has entered the video game industry.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SiGEWl9pHsY; last accessed: 20260429

> 映画会社『東映』がゲーム業界参入！発表されたゲームの印象は…？

## --

Okamoto-san shares that Toei is celebrating its 75th anniversary, so it's a momentous occasion. Furthermore, Okamoto-san recounts that Toei has chosen young creators to work in the three projects of the new studio, Toei Games, using Toei's IP. According to Okamoto-san, it appears that these games, which we can also be seen in Toei's trailers, aren't AAA titles, but are A titles similar to indie games.

Okamoto-san also points out that the truth is that other companies like Shueisha and Sanrio have established their own video game studios. Okamoto-san then reveals that if he were Toei, he'd launch a diverse array of video games. He believes that this experience itself would be very invaluable.

In addition, if Toei could achieve success just like what it's done with its films, more people would recognize Toei's brand as well as the studio's works, especially given that Steam is a global platform, such that if their games sell, it can be expected that Toei's films and videos would also sell afterward.

Finally, Okamoto-san believes Toei already knows the importance of balancing elements like sound and scriptwriting in order to create fantastic films, something very similar with the creation of video games.

Before closing, I'd like to predict as a response to Okamoto-san that we'll see more effective use of animations in both of Toei's games and videos, although I'd personally like to see more use of AI in their live-action works.

This is all. 

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
