https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202606/20260604/20260604PM.md; last accessed: 20260605

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The experience traveling in the ASUKA III cruise ship

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-06-05

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about his experience traveling in the ASUKA III cruise ship.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BhqU7DNFnC8; last accessed: 20260604

> 【飛鳥Ⅲ】３週間の旅を終えてクルージングの感想を正直にお伝えします｜岡本吉起塾Ch 

## --

Okamoto-san begins by saying that this morning the ship will be arriving at the Hachinohe port (instead of Kobe), so he still has several minutes to share with us some of his thoughts about his trip in the cruise for three weeks.

Okamoto-san reiterates that since he's paid 16 million yen to travel in this cruise with his mom, he thinks that ASUKA III should have more value.

Okamoto-san points out that the ship's wifi called "Starlink" sometimes don't have a stable internet connection. This is why Okamoto-san can't acces the internet, do a live video, nor use apps like, for intance, popopo for his work. Specifically, Okamoto-san explains that he was spending a lot of time trying to identify if the app has a bug or an internet access problem. Further, Okamoto-san admits that it's a situation that he had not anticipated, because it seemed to him that accessing the internet is already an indispensable service. Moreover, Okamoto-san says that it's difficult for him to visit web sites and open manga comics due to this wifi problem.

Next, Okamoto-san shares his plan in the evening after arriving in Hachinohe. He plans to rent a car and travel up to Shibuya for around two days.

Okamoto-san also recalls a scene that he and his mom were able to watch: a rifle-firing demonstration in Tanegashima. Okamoto-san admits that they arrived very early at the venue, because he only followed the bus driver with whom he had spoken when the ship was docked about the "ika odori" dances, and found that, as always, there was a schedule for these events. However, in the end, he was very satisified to see the rifle-firing demonstration, even though there were no "ika odori" dances at all.

Finally, Okamoto-san really believes that the ASUKA III cruise ship must have more value, because he's paid 8 million yen, or 16 million yen for him and his mom, although he also admits that it's because, as a newbie, he still hasn't gotten used to this type of trip, which has schedules, among other things.

This is all. 

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
