https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260526/20260526PM.md; last accessed: 20260527

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: "MOUSE: P.I. For Hire"

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-27

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about "MOUSE: P.I. For Hire."

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bfaepDtP1Bg; last accessed: 20260526

> パブリックドメインで売上73万本の大ヒット！カートゥン調FPS「MOUSE：やとわれの探偵」版権切れのコンテンツの可能性を探る

## --

First, Okamoto-san announces that this new game, which uses graphics from the animations of the 1930s，has sold 740,000 copies all over the world, although it probably infringes on the copyright of another well-known mouse.

However, Okamoto-san reveals that the game's studio has paid all the expeneses for marketing, development and more, so what the studio currently receives as income is already all for itself.

Okamoto-san also explains that it's a First Person Shooter (FPS), so what we can see are the hands of the hero carrying a weapon or some other item. Further, the studio has created a very cute game that also looks good. While it's only in black and white, Okamoto-san points out that the game reminds us of cartoons from a well-known brand, but, this time, the mouse has a weapon.

Finally, Okamoto-san advises us to also try out this game that's been published by PlaySide. He also wants to read our comments.

Before closing, I'd like to comment as my response to Okamoto-san that I think that the Steam platform, along with big companies like Facebook/Meta, wants to developer more FPS games, and this game helps them achieve that goal. I recall that the developers of Quake II launched an update that I was able to try out, although the game makes me dizzy when I can't find any enemy while running around the dungeon. So, maybe, a game like Time Crisis 2 in which the path has already been laid out might be better for players who want more fast-paced action instead of exploration.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
