https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260104/20260104PM.md; last accessed: 20260105

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Life that Yoshiki Okamoto Wants after Retiring from the Video Game Industry

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-05

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the life that he wants after retiring from the video game industry.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b3xeRkN72Gw; last accessed: 20260104

> 2026年になりました。ゲームプロデューサー引退に向け準備を進めています｜岡本吉起塾

## --

First, he greets us with a happy new year 2026.

Next, he says that he has only 1.5 years before he retires. He admits that it's a life event that he's also announced prior to this.

But while he has a ton of things that he wants to do during that time, he reveals that he's already old and isn't as healthy as before, so he can't do everything that he likes.

Still, one example that he gives is touring Vietnam on a scooter. Another example is that this coming June he plans to travel all over Japan with his mother, and he thinks that the trip will last approximately three weeks. He also wants to travel the whole world on a bicycle, but like what he's said, he's already old.

However, very recently, he had been thinking about handpicking gold using an object similar to a plate in order to sieve it from the sand. Since gold and other metals are heavier than sand, when water is put and then poured out, only these heavy objects would remain. Because of this, gold can be picked out.

Okamoto-san also explains that he wants to do this not to make money, but for the experience, which, he believes, is a kind of game. Of course, he says that there are places where 500 or 1000 yen can be paid to try this out, but the truth is that he prefers to go to the mountains where there's a river and he could handpick the gold. Moreover, it doesn't mean that he should do it in Japan, because he wants to experience it in many countries like, for example, Australia, New Zealand and Thailand. So it's a pastime that he wants to do when he travels to another country. In addition, he relates it with collecting antique Rolex watches.

Next, he says that he's seen a video wherein a 760 g of gold was obtained in Japan. Okamoto-san thought that it cost 20 million yen. However, it seems that over 10 kg of gold could be obtained in Australia.

Finally, Okamoto-san reminds us that it's better that we live life without regretting anything.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike