https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202511/20251112/20251112PM.md; last accessed: 20251113

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: OpenAI's ChatGPT Tool

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-11-13

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the rumor that OpenAI will have a remarkably high valuation after one or two years.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pmDQPT3o8Is; last accessed: 20251113

> 【驚愕】時価総額は150兆円！ChatGPTでお馴染みの「OpenAI」がついに来年上場か？｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san says that OpenAI was initially a nonprofit, but later converted into a for-profit corporation.

Furthermore, it's received investments from Elon Musk and Microsoft, such that its market capitalization is currently 1 trillion yen. Meanwhile, Nvidia has 5 trillion yen.

Okamoto-san explains that the reason why OpenAI has so high a valuation is because people anticipate the advancements that OpenAI will bring through AI like, for instance, the tool, ChatGPT.

ChatGPT uses AI to receive answers to questions that users have written to it. These answers are in paragraphs that the AI writes. Moreover, ChatGPT has the capability to create images, write notes about meetings, or help write software.

Also, he points out that we don't have to use all of ChatGPT's new features. According to Okamoto-san, it's the same with the iPhone in that a person doesn't use all the features that the iPhone has, because even only 3% is already enough.

Okamoto-san believes that if we can use ChatGPT, even if it's not the tool's full capabilities, the arrival of the future that OpenAI will open for us will be accelerated.

Finally, Okamoto-san says that AI should be simple for everyone, because this is its main purpose. Furthermore, the future that we are approaching with AI assumes the disappearance of people specialized in technologies. Therefore, Okamoto-san advises us to try out ChatGPT right now.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike