https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202510/20251024/20251024PM.md; last accessed: 20251025

> Life Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Ways to Remove Stress in Life

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-10-25

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the YouTube Live Video that Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Ms. Tapi streamed last night. The topic of the talk is: Okamoto's advice to remove stress in life.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-6MQGeWcTjs; last accessed: 20251025

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ（25年10月24日）

## --

Okamoto-san says that actually habits like, for example, taking medicine, smoking cigarettes and drinking beer can increase the stress that we feel in life, because we can become addicted to them.

In particular, Okamoto-san explains that people who smoke cigarettes, do it in order to remove stress so that when they stop, they'll feel more stressed out. Okamoto-san advises not to start smoking or end this bad habit immediately.

Next, Okamoto-san teaches us that there's also a type of stress that's more of the mind or psychological. He says that sometimes we feel it, because we're unable to communicate well with other people, and he gives the example of his own experience in Malaysia where he thinks that he speaks less and less English, even though he believes that he should have already improved in the language given that he also travels a lot to other countries.

He explains that the environment, of course, influences the amount of stress in our life, and since Ms. Tapi accompanies him frequently, he thinks that it isn't necessary for him to speak English so much.

Moreover, he advises that we don't need to be perfect all the time. Also, if there's a place where we feel a lot of stress in life, we can distance ourselves from this place in order to eliminate or reduce it.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike