https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260425/20260425PM.md; last accessed: 20260426

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Investing in the Stock Market

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-26

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about investing in the stock market.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=96ycQ3Y98Rw; last accessed: 20260425

> 資産家岡本吉起流、株式投資へのアンテナの貼り方【ETF /配当株/ゲーム株】｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san presents the idea that if we invest 100,000 yen per month, we'd be able to obtain 50 million yen in 20 years through the 8% or 8.5% interest we'd get. Furthermore, he clarifies that although he isn't a trained investor, he knows well the video game industry after working in it for many years, so Okamoto-san invests only in the companies that he knows well.

He also reveals that he doesn't look at the rise and fall of the share values in the stock market, because he only follows his plan of investing money each month. He shares that, of course, there are people who'd want to stop investing when they find out that the value of their shares has dropped sharply. But Okamoto-san reiterates that if we have confidence in the plan that he's taught, we shouldn't worry about it.

Next, Okamoto-san currently recommends companies like GungHo and Mixi, which he couldn't invest in at all when he was poor. He also speaks about Nintendo, which really gives high dividends according to Okamoto-san's experience. Moreover, he mentions Kiritani-san, an investor who has invested in a wide range of well-known companies.

Okamoto-san also says that there's an advantage to being a Japanese investor. That is, Japanese investors get special treatment in the form of gifts such as chocolates and others, something very exciting for Okamoto-san, because each year he gets one or two that surprise him.

Before ending, I'd like to comment as my response to Okamoto-san that I recall from the words, "20 years," the idea of striving to guide a company to be able to grow and be more well-known. As a result, other people would want to invest in it and the first investor could sell them his shares and would make a lot of money. Then, the new investors, in turn, would have to strive to guide the company.

This is all. 

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike