https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20250902/20250902PM.md; last accessed: 20250903

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Ex-producer from Square Enix, Ryutaro Ichimura, is launching a new title called "Puritto Purizunaa"

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-09-03

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about Mr. Ryutaro Ichimura, an ex-producer from Square Enix. He continues that Ichimura-san had worked on the game, Dragon Quest, particularly Hoshi no Dragon Quest (The Dragon Quest Star) for smartphones. It launched in 2015, and exceeded 25 million downloads in 2022.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=efLP53JHT68; last accessed: 20250903

> The story behind the former Dragon Quest producer's departure from Square Enix is ​​too real

## --

Okamoto-san says that Ichimura-san is currently the president of the new company called Pinkuru, which has received 100% of its funding from the company, NetEase. Moreover, he reveals that the reason why Ichimura-san left Square Enix is because he wants to create something that can't be done within the studio. That is, Square Enix' environment right now doesn't allow Ichimura-san to create what he wants. It's an indication of the serious problem that Square Enix has at the moment.

Okamoto-san also says that although Pinkuru told Ichimura-san that he could get 100 million yen as his annual salary, he accepted only 60 million yen as its president. The amount is triple his salary as producer at Square Enix.

Okamoto-san explains that it's quite cheap, because he believes that big producers like Mr. Hironobu Sakaguchi received 100 million yen, and in his case when he had been the producer at Capcom, the company gave him 70 million yen.

Next, Okamoto-san adds that Ichimura-san has promised to release three games. One of which is "Puritto Purizunaa" for Nintendo Switch 2. Okamoto-san believes that since players of Dragon Quest have gotten older and are already in their 40's and up, Ichimura-san has the great task of enlarging the market for this type of game by capturing young people who are 17 or 18 years old.

Finally, Okamoto-san is excited for this game, and, of course, for its producer who is 47 years old.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike