https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260502/20260502PM.md; last accessed: 20260503

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Sanrio has established a new studio called Sanrio Games

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-02

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the announcement that Sanrio has established a new studio called Sanrio Games.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jZDB9e8RStI; last accessed: 20260502

> サンリオがついにゲーム事業立ち上げた！100億円規模の投資へ

## --

Okamoto-san is very excited by this move by Sanrio to enter the video game industry. Although it's an industry that seems more like a "Red Ocean," instead of a "Blue Ocean," because many studios fail, Okamoto-san believes that there are some who do can achieve success.

Okamoto-san also reveals that Sanrio has bet 10 billion yen over three years to try to launch a successful title. Furthermore, Okamoto-san points out that Sanrio has over 450 characters in its IP, and something that interests Mr. Okamoto very much is that the studio plans to create new characters as well.

Further, Okamoto-san likes to imagine what game genre the studio would release, but he thinks that something completely new might be the most interesting.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that now that Sanrio Games has entered the industry, even after three years, he hopes that the studio continues to release more games, something that, Okamoto-san believes, increases the chances of winning and recuperating expenses.

Before closing, I'd like to comment as my response to Okamoto-san that here in the Philippines I recall having encountered Sanrio's characters at Megamall in Ortigas back when I was still in grade school. The store, which was called Gift Gate, also had Lego toys that attracted me very much, although I didn't always have money to buy them. Aside from Hello Kitty, I also recognize Kero Kero Keroppi. He was a character who appeared a lot in our household items like photo albums. More recently, another character that interests me very much is Bad Badtz Maru. With respect to the new game, I imagine one that can be played for a short period of time, but also regularly. So it's a game for casual gamers, with the core of the game being not very different from Harvest Moon for the first PlayStation.

This is all. 

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike