https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260523/20260523PM.md; last accessed: 20260524

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Traveling all over Japan aboard the Asuka III cruise ship

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-24

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about his experience traveling all over Japan aboard the Asuka III cruise ship.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FOAEyRtT7nA; last accessed: 20260523

> 【飛鳥Ⅲ】出航から10日目でやっとクルーズの楽しみ方に気づきました。｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san admits that until now, he hadn't understood that leaving the ship to walk around the port is only an extra, and it's better to be inside the Asuka III, because it's really a big tourist resort that travels the sea at the same time. Further, inside it, there are many activities that passengers could enjoy. For example, there's a rotenburo (an open-air bath), a swimming pool, a casino, restaurants, coffee shops and many more.

Moreover, because the cruise is traveling, the passengers would discover that the scenery also changes each time they arrive in the ports. But while they are allowed to get off the ship to see a little the surrounding areas of the port, it's still better that they return to the ship quickly, because there's more that they could enjoy inside.

Next, Okamoto-san reveals that while he didn't make any reservations at the start each time he had gone to eat at the restaurants, after about a week, he found out that he must really know well the schedule that the restaurants follow. For example, he recounts that there's the restaurant called "Four Seasons" and in all the three weeks of their trip, Chinese food is offered only two days, and they don't serve Korean food at all. This is why Okamoto-san says that they must look into this schedule and wait for the specified day.

In addition, Okamoto-san shares that enjoying the six restaurants is a game. He explains that two of the restaurants serve only breakfast and lunch. And for the rest, some require a reservation. Okamoto-san also admits that for four days he's eaten the same food continuously for the evening, because the restaurant that doesn't need a reservation doesn't change it at all.

Okamoto-san also points out that thanks to this trip, his mom could relax more, because the only thing that he and his mom should do is to agree on the time they'd meet up to eat or something else, and she doesn't anymore need to worry about washing her clothes herself, among other chores. Okamoto-san emphasizes that if his mom isn't happy, he wouldn't be happy as well, meaning that it's a huge failure for Okamoto-san who has paid 1.6 million yen for this cruise, which eventually amounts to nothing in the end.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that they still have around 10 days left and he wants to look into some more the cruise's schedule, so that he and his mom could enjoy it even more.

This is all. 

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
