https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260520/20260520PM.md; last accessed: 20260521

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The New Film from the Resident Evil Series

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-21

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the new film from the Resident Evil series.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gof1-Mjalqk; last accessed: 20260520

> 【完全新作】バイオハザード実写映画が公開決定！新映像を見て思ったことは…

## --

First, Okamoto-san announces that the film will be launched on September 18th of this year, something that Okamoto-san likes very much, because he often returns to Japan during that time, so he wants to see it in movie theaters. He also explains that while he can watch films in Malaysia, which are accompanied by subtitles in English, Mandarin and Bahasa Malaysia, he doesn't often watch films there. However, he's very excited to see it in Japan, only, to be honest, he doesn't like the noise from the people who munch popcorns, among other things, especially because silence is very important to experience a film like Resident Evil.

Next, Okamoto-san reveals that this eight film is the sixth from the actress Ms. Milla Jovovich. Further, Okamoto-san says that he isn't worried too much about the question of whether the film will be similar to a Mad Max film. Okamoto-san also mentions that among the six films starred by Ms. Milla Jovovich, Okamoto-san had been involved in only one, when he pointed out that he didn't like a scene in the film, such that he had gone to Mr. Noboru Sugimura, who would be the screenwriter of the next films, Resident Evil 2, 3, Code Veronica and 0. Together with him and the permission of Capcom's president, Mr. Kenzo Tsujimoto, Okamoto-san was able to change that scene.

Although Mr. Shinji Mikami didn't agree with Okamoto-san's script, the film wasn't all that bad. Okamoto-san explains that he thought that the same story for the video game couldn't be used in the film, so he felt that it was necessary to change it.

At this point, Okamoto-san talks about the film, Constantine, which appears to have been produced in Hollywood, but is actually from Germany. He says that the cost to produce it was very cheap, something that perhaps would surprise many people. Okamoto-san points out that they had used the Nazi command center in Berlin to shoot the film. In addition, they used makeshift things such as a carton that was wrapped in aluminum paper instead of the real thing, among other objects. He also says that Ms. Jovovich slept on a plywood, because they were working so hard to finish the film. Also, Okamoto-san shares that afterward, the film's director and Ms. Jovovich ended up marrying each other.

Returning to Capcom's films, Okamoto-san says that before the first Resident Evil, the studio had launched another, which was the Street Fighter II movie. Okamoto-san shares that while the film could recuperate money, he thinks that it was a major flop. The studio had hired Mr. Jean Claude Van Damme to star the film, and spent billions of yen.

Finally, Okamoto-san says that this new Resident Evil film is being produced with the experience of the prior films, such that Okamoto-san believes that this film already understands the industry and its audience, so we should anticipate it with the excitement to know what the film would be. With respect to the Resident Evil series of video games, Okamoto-san admits that his most favorite had been the fourth one, but now he thinks that the new game is his new most favorite.

Before closing, I'd like to comment as my response to Okamoto-san that in the years from 2004 to 2005 when he had been at the university in Japan, his schoolmates were very excited to see the new Resident Evil film in the movie theater. My impression from the posters was that it was an action film whose lead heroine I didn't yet recognize from the video game, although it was named Resident Evil.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
