https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260304PM.md; last accessed: 20260305

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: HUNTER X HUNTER NEN X SURVIVOR, the New Mobile Game from Fuji Road

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-05

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the new mobile game from Fuji Road called HUNTER X HUNTER NEN X SURVIVOR.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EjRWMAKC3DI; last accessed: 20260304

> 【神ゲー到来か？】ブシロードからリリースされたHunter × Hunterのゲームアプリをレビュー

## --

First, Okamoto-san reveals that he's aggravated his cold, so he hasn't recovered his voice yet.

Next, he explains that the title of the game reminds him of another game, that is, Vampire Survivor, and actually this game has a similar gameplay. Further, he thinks that the design of the characters of this game has been well done. Also, the transitions between screens aren't bad either.

What's more, Okamoto-san shares that after only a day since its release, the game has already attained rank 8 based on downloads. He believes that this achievement is related to the popularity of the rights of HUNTER X HUNTER.

Next, Okamoto-san points out four elements, which, he believes, have helped raise the rank of this game. First is simple-to-understand gameplay. Second is well-known characters. Third is much-loved copyright. And the last is beautiful drawings.

In fact, Okamoto-san mentions that an advantage of this game is that it has better graphics than Vampire Survivor.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that he hasn't yet heard that the game's studio has done so well prior. And he admits that after trying it out, he's put it aside, so it seems to him that the game will also have this overall outcome.

Before ending, given that Okamoto-san has advised us to also write our opinions, I'd like to say that Vampire Survivor attracted me, because it reminded me of the drawings from Konami, particularly the Castlevania series, but I had the impression that the studio may have infringed their copyright, so I haven't tried downloading it yet. However, I think that it's a game that I can just view without playing based on its gameplay.

With respect to HUNTER X HUNTER, I had seen its anime on channel 7 on TV, but like with the TRIGUN anime, I didn't like the drawings. What I liked were Yu Yu Hakusho, Dragon Quest and Time Quest on channel 13 as well as Dragon Ball on channel 9, especially when Son Goku was still young and was fighting against the Red Ribbon organization.

This is all. 

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike