https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260304PM-2.md; last accessed: 20260304

> Analysis of BPI's Plan Ahead in the Time of the CMEPA

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-04

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you my analysis of the Bank of the Philippine Island (BPI)'s Plan Ahead product in the time of the Capital Markets Efficiency Promotion Act (CMEPA).

Prior to CMEPA, an investor could opt to put money into BPI's Plan Ahead product in order to gain a conservative amount of profit, provided that he agrees to not withdraw nor deposit any additional amount to it for a period of five years, without having to pay additional government tax. 

For example, an amount of 100,000 PHP could be expected to yield 20,000 PHP after five years at an interest rate of 4% per annum. Of course, the person may also opt for a compounded interest rate, in which case, the yield would go up to 21,665.29 PHP.

With the introduction of the CMEPA in July of last year, a 20% tax is now imposed on this yield. Therefore, a yield of 20,000 PHP would be reduced by 4,000 PHP, becoming 16,000 PHP. In this sense, the interest rate of 4% is now actually only 3.2%.

In my opinion, as long as we understand what the actual yield would be after five years, even after having the CMEPA added in the computation, the change isn't supposed to be too shocking. 

Meanwhile, BPI is also highlighting its other products like the "Treasury Bill," which currently yields 3.16% net, which is given upon application for a deposit of 500,000 PHP and for a period of 90 days. In this case, the yield only slightly increases to 3.21% net for a longer period of 363 days due to management fee.

In addition, there are the common alternatives like the Social Security System (SSS) with its booster option and the Pag-IBIG MP2 for those who are looking for higher yields that are with the Philippine government and are, therefore, not anymore additionally taxed.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike