https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260107/20260107PM.md; last accessed: 20260108

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Arrest of a Tokemacchi Executive Two Years Ago

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-08

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the arrest of an executive from the Tokemacchi company two years ago.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cF0G6rNITeY; last accessed: 20260107

> 【ついに】ドバイ逃亡中だったトケマッチ元代表の引渡しに見る日本とドバイの今後｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, with respect to the company's business, he explains that it receives a watch from someone and then lends it to another person. The company gives money to the person who has lent it the watch, while it receives money from the other person who has borrowed the item.

Okamoto-san reveals that actually there are many people who want to lend their watches. However, although it appeared at first that there were also many people who wanted to borrow these watches, two years ago, the Tokemacchi company announced on its web page that it had ended its service, and the suspect, an executive of the company, took off for Dubai without returning the watches.

Furthermore, before leaving Japan, it's said that the suspect sold the watches in several places in Japan. So he was able to earn 1.8 billion yen through this method. Still, while it's supposed that he had gone into hiding, according to news reports, he's already been arrested and has been sent back to Japan.

Next, Okamoto-san explains that Dubai has turned into a country where people who want to escape from some serious crime or similar go. This is why it isn't a safe country anymore.

Also, while countries including Japan can request another country to give them a criminal through Interpol, the truth is that Dubai doesn't search criminals actively. Okamoto-san believes that it's because almost all people in Dubai are criminals. In particular, he has the impression that the Japanese who go to Dubai are bad.

Okamoto-san also wonders about the reason why the suspect had not fabricated his passport before leaving Japan. He explains that it would cost 30 million yen in Japan, but believes that it's cheaper in China. Also, when the suspect returned to Japan, instead of having a distinct hairdo, he was bald with an unkempt beard, in addition to an apologetic posture.

Okamoto-san thinks that it's better that he had fabricated his passport and had gone to Canada, instead of staying in Dubai thinking that it's safer there. He reveals that this method of going to Canada seems to be the most used.

In Dubai, 10% of the population are citizens, while the rest are foreigners. Although taxes are cheap, there are other countries that are also so. Therefore, if the person is involved in a crime, Okamoto-san thinks that we need to reassess whether Dubai is really the best country to move to and live in or not.

Finally, Okamoto-san explains that Japanese people tend to focus on Japanese people, and while they easily trust other compatriots, they should remember to be careful against the Japanese who are in Dubai.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike