https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202511/20251126/20251126PM.md; last accessed: 20251127

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Athlete Shohei Ohtani has won the MVP award in baseball for the fourth year, three years in a row

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-11-27

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the athlete Shohei Ohtani, who's won the MVP award in baseball for the fourth year, three years in a row.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ucB-edOqdk; last accessed: 20251127

> 大谷翔平選手がMVP最有力候補に！社会への影響力凄すぎる大谷の内面を深掘りします｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san says that when he himself had been very young, Japanese people didn't think that a Japanese person would be in the Major League. Frankly, he says that the skills of the Japanese hadn't been too outstanding in the first place, such that foreign athletes ended up coming to Japan. Although people thought that even Mr. Hideo Nomo or Mr. Ichiro of the Mariners didn't have any outstanding abilities either, both showed that they could play with American athletes in the United States.

Afterward, Mr. Shohei Ohtani debuted. Okamoto-san explains that, in general, the best age for an athlete to win the MVP award the third time is 30 to 31 years old. So, there are people who say that Ohtani-san couldn't continue winning. However, since Okamoto-san likes Ohtani-san very much, he wants to support him.

Moreover, he reveals that Ohtani-san has a secondary job that gives him an annual income that has exceeded 15 billion yen. But recently, according to news reports, Ohtani-san has been accused of baseball betting. Okamoto-san believes that the person who made the rumor is a criminal or a former criminal. He's the type of person that the court has imprisoned, but left thereafter to France or something like that.

Also, he points out that, basically, the only reason for the accusation is that Ohtani-san seems to be a person who makes baseball bets. Okamoto-san explains that the person who really does this is the one that Okamoto-san just mentioned, a person who uses other people to show that betting is a natural human thing. Okamoto-san is firm that if we investigate Ohtani-san, we'd find that he isn't the man that he's talking about.

In the end, Okamoto-san wants to continue to support Ohtani-san.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike