https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202602/20260225PM.md; last accessed: 20260226

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The G-Shock Nano, a new series of Casio watches from the G-Shock brand

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-02-26

## --

Dear friends,

Today, I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about Casio's G-Shock Nano, which is so small that it fits in a finger.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1p5aB9YSqzo; last accessed: 20260225

> 【限定品】ずっと欲しかった品薄G-shockを定価で購入してきた｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san tells us that actually he really likes G-Shock and his most favorite line of G-Shock products is called Frogman, so much so that he owns many watches from this series.

Further, the G-Shock Nano began to be sold on November 8th of the previous year. What's more, it's size is 1/10 of the regular G-Shock. He also admits that since he's already old, he can't see very well the time in this nano, but he's very happy to have been able to buy one, because there isn't a lot of supply of the product even in Japan, and he says that, fortunately, there was a store with various watches that had this watch.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that although the first G-Shock Nano series has ended, he believes that there'll be more series that will be launched and which he recommends us to buy as well. Aside from this G-Shock Nano series, he thinks that a small version of the DWN-5600 line of products will be launched, and he'll be very happy if the Frogman series or one in collaboration with another franchise would get released much later.

Before ending, Okamoto-san has advised us to also write our comments, so I'd like to say that I prefer these Casio watches like G-Shock or, more recently, the F-91W than other non-digital watches, because it's faster to see the time, the day and the date with them, and in addition I use their stopwatch function as well as the LED light. The G-Shock, in particular, is also very useful when I go swimming, although I recently found out that the life of these watches has gone down by a year. It had appeared to me that each watch lasts for five years before having to buy a new one, but this time my last one had only lasted for four years.

This is all.

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike