https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202606/20260610/20260610PM.md; last accessed: 20260611

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The new Tomodachi Collection game for the Switch 2

> Redactor: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-06-11

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the new Tomodachi Collection game that he plays on the Switch 2.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B-nxN48vB_k; last accessed: 20260610

> 【時間泥棒！？】トモダチコレクションわくわく生活が面白すぎる件

## --

First, Okamoto-san says that it's a series that has been launched on Nintendo's mobile consoles Nintendo DS and 3DS a long time ago, and is a game that has captivated Okamoto-san to play since then. In addition, he explains that in this game, the player creates and customizes his friends of "Mii" using the available in-game features like changing the eyes and the eyebrows.

Okamoto-san has also created an island, "Okachi To," where his friends live. He further clarifies that he only creates friends who have really visited him at his house "Bari Haus," although he admits that this creation process takes up a lot of his time, so when Tapi-san returned to Malaysia, she helped him create several of his visitors, closer to the actual the better.

Next, Okamoto-san reveals that until the arrival of Tomodachi Collection, he hasn't used his Switch 2 as much in that he puts away the console after playing a game or two very quickly. However, this new game captivates him to play everyday. While it's only the fourth day since he started playing the game, he also admits that he's now putting in more time playing Tomdachi Collection than Monster Hunter NOW.

Moreover, he says that although he didn't want to play the game anymore after knowing about what he only wanted at the start, he ended up continuing to play it. Okamoto-san also says that the characters that he's created actually interact with each other, and he finds it very amusing when a friend courts another friend. Okamoto-san has also told the inhabitants to call him "Ohsama (The King)," a very amusing thing for Okamoto-san.

Finally, since there's no ending and the player can continue to play the game as he pleases, he should be able to create characters limitlessly. However, according to Okamoto-san, in addition to the time that has to be spent to customize the characters, there's also a limit in the expressions that can be used to create the inhabitants, such that he believes there will come a day when one character cannot anymore be differentiated very well from another.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
