https://github.com/usbong/personal/tree/main/milestone/2025/202507/20250729/20250729PM.md; last accessed: 20250730

> Why Yoshiki Okamoto wanted to work on "consumer" or home console games

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-07-30

## Last updated: 2025-07-031T15:13

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the reasons Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's gave for wanting to work in the "consumer" division of Capcom.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J_azhtPYoBU; last accessed: 20250730

> 【カプコン】家庭用ゲームソフトの開発をやってみたかった理由は？

## --

First, he explains that when Capcom's boss, Mr. Kenzo Tsujimoto, called him and Mr. Tokuro Fujiwara to his office in order to decide on their next line of work, Okamoto-san, in fact, chose the "consumer" or home console division, while Fujiwara-san preferred the "arcade" division. 

However, Tsujimoto-san instead gave the "arcade" division to Okamoto-san, while Fujiwara-san got the "consumer" division.

In the video, Okamoto-san points out several reasons why he wanted to work on consumer games.

One is that at the arcades, players couldn't really play for more than 40 minutes, because the store wouldn't make any money. 

This is why Okamoto-san and his team had to design the arcade games in such a way that when the player put in 100 yen, he wouldn't die immediately. In other words, they gave the player at least three minutes of playing time. 

However, for home console games, players didn't anymore have this time limit, and they could play continuously and for as long as they wanted.

Another reason that Okamoto-san gave is that the sound, including the background music, could be heard more audibly in the games for the home console. At the arcades, the machines were put close to each other, so that it was difficult to hear well the in-game music.

Third, the games for the arcades could be turned into a version for the home console too, which meant that work at that particular division of the company didn't halt.

This is all. Of course, there are many more things that Okamoto-san said, but I'll need to stop here already.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike