https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260420/20260420PM.md; last accessed: 20260421

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The drop in the number of tourists from China in Japan

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-21

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about his thoughts regarding the drop in the number of Chinese tourists in Japan.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMAv9qiPIaw; last accessed: 20260420

> 【高市政権】中国観光客が減ってしまっても経済効果は…｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, he reveals that although the number of tourists from China increased 3% in November last year, in December of the same year, it fell 58% if we compare it with the previous year.

According to Okamoto-san's explanation, it seems that due to the situation between China and Taiwan, there are people who believe that it isn't advisable to visit Japan at the moment, so they prefer to go to Korean instead. Furthermore, he points out the existence of US military bases in Okinawa, which, Okamoto-san thinks, if a war ensues, it's better to first attack this base in Okinawa instead of targeting Taiwan, because US military is a lot harder to defend against than the one from Taiwan.

Moreover, Okamoto-san is grateful, because it was great that not many tourists from China were around when he had travelled in Japan. He says that there are Japanese who don't want to travel if there are tourists from China.

Okamoto-san also announces that Japanese income hasn't gone down too much because of this. He believes that it's because there are Chinese who stay illegally using Airbnb or some other, such that the hotels didn't suffer huge losses in terms of income. However, what has gone down by 5% includes credit card payments for luxury products from the department store or high-end brands such as watches.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that this outcome is really for Japan, so we should look at it from this perspective.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
