https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260119/20260119PM.md; last accessed: 20260120

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Increase in the tax threshold to 1.78 million yen for annual income in Japan

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-20

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video about the decision made by Japan's cabinet members to increase the tax threshold to 1.78 million yen for annual income.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O6oRViL8Vww; last accessed: 20260120

> 年収の壁178万円に引き上げ決定！現内閣の政策に期待大なんだが｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

This means that workers only pay tax if their incomes exceed this 1.78 million yen per year.

However, Okamoto-san explains that the truth is that he prefers that it would be 2.4 million yen, because the prices of goods and services in Japan have increased a lot as well.

Despite this situation, Okamoto-san trusts Prime Minster Takaichi's administration. He also says that when he was much younger, he thought that cabinet members didn't work. But this isn't the case now, according to Okamoto-san.

Furthermore, he points out that given that government officials don't need to pay taxes, Okamoto-san thinks that a part of the population shouldn't also pay so much.

He brings to light the current situation in which no more children are getting born and the population count goes down. Okamoto-san shares that thresholds like what he's said, in addition to health insurances and subsidies for the spouse, were created so that mothers, who were excellent workers, wouldn't return to the office, and would instead focus on the household and her children. Okamoto-san believes that it's better that they could continue to work in the office.

He also says that the increase in the annual income is currently from 8 million yen to 65 million yen. When we consider inflation or the increase in the prices of goods, it's evident that the said income isn't enough.

For example, when Okamoto-san returned to Japan, and went to the "Matsuya" restaurant to eat Gyudon (beef with rice) with cheese on top, it cost him 880 yen, even though his impression was that it should cost him only about 400 yen. So the price has increased to double its original price. Therefore, income for workers should also go up to double. But since the reality is that it only went up 1.3 times, the life of the Japanese has become much harder.

Another example that he gives is the iPhone 17, which costs 180,000 yen and which Okamoto-san hasn't bought. He thinks that perhaps he could buy the iPhone 18 or the next models, particularly when the value of the Japanese currency has again increased just like before when he bought an iPhone for the first time. However, he believes that the current version, iPhone 17, is more durable and will last for many years. In addition, he explains that the reason for the high price tag is due to Japanese taxes.

Next, Okamoto-san explains that Japan uses a great part of the taxes in its donations to foreign countries like China, even though the Chinese are anti-Japanese. He believes that the use of taxes by the Japanese government has to be reevaluated.

Finally, Okamoto-san clarifies that he supports the current administration and hopes that foreigners in Japan would follow Japanese rules when they're in the country, and not the other way around.

This is all. As always, there are many more things that Okamoto-san has said, but I should already stop here.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike