https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251216/20251216PM.md; last accessed: 20251217

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Capcom during the time of President Kenzo Tsujimoto

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-17

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the time when Capcom was still young and its president, Kenzo Tsujimoto, had been leading the company. 

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Eqs0Pk6CfM; last accessed: 20251216

> カプコンを作った男『辻本憲三』ってどんな人？黎明期にグッときた辻本さんからの言葉

## --

Okamoto-san says that about 40 years ago, Capcom's employees, including Okamoto-san and Mr. Tokuro Fujiwara, wanted to shape the studio not like Konami but as Capcom itself, even though people like, for instance, Okamoto-san, had worked at Konami before.

Next, Okamoto-san recalls an incident where Tsujimoto-san helped out his developers by giving them money from his office. Okamoto-san explains that during that time there were several teams that were developing games and each team already had funding. However, he says, they complained that the money wasn't enough.

Okamoto-san admits that since he couldn't finish game development work very quickly, he needed four months. Still, in general, the duration to finish a project was three months, though sometimes four or even six months.

Meanwhile, the department for home consoles hadn't yet existed, so everyone worked to create arcade games. They brought them to the arcades, testing them out and doing various related tasks. Okamoto-san says that this work took at most two weeks, and afterward they had time, which could last up to a year, of not developing any game.

Okamoto-san says that Tsujimoto-san believed that they had to raise the brand of the studio and the quality of its products. Thus, the president, who was also the owner of the studio, was willing to give money to his developers.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike