https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260530/20260530PM.md; last accessed: 20260531

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The difficulty of finding work during the time called Hyogaki or frozen job market

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-31

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture 11 months ago.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6nf6q-UZ7PI; last accessed: 20260530

> 就職氷河期の時代での就職難易度を語るWithタピさん｜岡本吉起塾Ch 

## --

It's about the difficulty of finding work during the time called Hyogaki or frozen job market. Further, it's a video that I've seen and I've already written about, although I'd like to share with you again Okamoto-san's message for us.

First, Okamoto-san explains that when Hyogaki comes, all the graduates of prestigious universities would not be able to enter large companies, so some of them would have to go to companies that are smaller. Moreover, graduates from less prestigious universities would have to go to companies that are even smaller.

Still, Okamoto-san emphasizes that faced with this situation, graduates should lower their lifestyle in order to reduce expenses and begin investing in the stock market. Okamoto-san also advises finding a secondary job to be able to obtain more money that they would be able to invest.

Okamoto-san says that saving money without investing in the stock market may have been all right before like what their grandparents used to advise, but nowadays Okamoto-san thinks that the pension after retiring won't be enough to live a comfortable life, such that Japanese workers must find ways to obtain more money for the future.

In addition, Okamoto-san stresses the fact that cash is very useful when the value of shares in the stock market falls, because it can be used to invest by buying cheap shares. However, Ms. Tapi admits that she worried a lot when she saw that the value fell so much, but like what Okamoto-san has taught us, this is the best time to invest, using the cash that she owned, instead of buying shares when they're going up or cost a lot.

This is all. 

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
