https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251218/20251218PM.md; last accessed: 20251219

> Stories from Prof. Joi Ito and Team: News Reports about Web3 and Cryptocurrencies

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-19

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you several salient points in Prof. Joi Ito and team's general meeting this morning.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2wak4UApy3w; last accessed: 20251219

>  【最新web3情報LIVE】web3とブロックチェーンがまちづくりや社会にもたらす可能性とは？｜weekly gm｜2025年12月19日 

## --

As usual, Comugi-san shared news reports related to Web3 and Cryptocurrencies.

## --

https://dalab-dg.notion.site/2025-12-19-Weekly-Roundup-gm-2cd99677e8338082a007ce618de2947a; last accessed: 20251219

> 2025-12-19｜Weekly Roundup｜ウィークリーgm

## --

First is the news that the value of gold has gone up, while Bitcoin's has drastically gone down. The stark contrast between the two is attributed to the decrease in the value of the USD.

Next, there's also a news report from CoinDesk, where it's said that Bhutan is contributing 10,000 units of Bitcoin (amounting to 860 million USD) in order to develop the Gelephu Mindfulness City in Southern Bhutan. The contribution is based on the country's successful implementation of a Bitcoin mining project that has been using hydroelectric power for many years. The purpose of using Bitcoin is said to be for the sake of prioritizing capital security, transparency and long-term management of the project. Comugi-san notes that Prof. Joi and team are actively engaged in the development of Bhutan.

Next, Comugi-san reports that DroneNet, a company that provides Drone Pilot education and cryptocurrency mining equipment, is going through bankruptcy proceedings with liabilities amounting to as much as 144.5 billion yen. Nihon Keizai News explains that the structure of the business is akin to selling investment products, making it easy for buyers to become creditors. However, because of the size and scale of the transactions, with an annual income amounting to about 97.7 billion yen in February 2025, mismanagement in the capital on the side of the company resulted to large amounts of unpaid transactions. This further led to difficulty in the payment of taxes in November 2025, going so far as to hide about 3 billion yen of income, while the problem continued with the passing away of a key manager in December 2025.

Next, Comugi-san shares exclusive news from CoinDesk saying that Crypto ETFs are getting permitted to operate in Japan come 2028 in line with tax reforms and regulations upon their implementation.

Finally, Comugi-san shares a paid article he wrote for WIRED. In this piece, he explains why Sony is currently focusing on Web3 and Stablecoins through a diagram that shows that existing platforms do not allow payments via micropayments, e-wallets, banking apps and stablecoins. However, by introducing these payment methods, the new scheme would pave the way for customers to get hold of IP and content relevant to their preferences. This new Sony ecosystem is thereby envisioned to bring profitability to the company and allow for direct interaction with its customers.

With regard to this morning's presentation, Prof. Junichi Suzuki from dentsu Innovation Initiative shared the many projects their R&D unit has been working on since the last few years. He says that in 2022 they started the Social City project, and since then he's been presenting and publishing research papers about this topic. Right now, they're specifically focusing on Martech, Web3, Spatial Media and Social Platforms. 

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike