https://github.com/usbong/personal/tree/main/milestone/2025/202506/20250623/20250623PM.md; last accessed: 20250624

> The difficulty of finding work during the "Frozen River Era"

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-06-24

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the talk by Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Tapi-san about the difficulty of finding work during the so-called "Frozen River Era," which has occurred two times, one between 1993 and 2004 after Japan's Bubble Economy burst, and the second in 2008 when the "Lehman Shock" occurred.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6nf6q-UZ7PI; last accessed: 20250624

> 就職氷河期の時代での就職難易度を語るWithタピさん｜岡本吉起塾Ch 

## --

Since Tapi-san started to look for work after graduating from university during the second instance of the said era, Okamoto-san explains that it had been much harder for her generation to enter a large company. Moreover, he says that during the Bubble Economy, however, large companies could recruit graduates, even if they didn't have stellar abilities.

Further, Okamoto-san emphasizes again that to make more money, it's necessary to invest in company stocks. As we have heard concerning the experience of Tapi-san, at the start, she didn't have any teacher like Okamoto-san who could teach her about this. Her income was also not very much at the time.

But after joining Okamoto-san's team, and putting half of her income into investments, she was able to make more money than before, even though she didn't feel good at first when she lost money because the value of the stocks she invested in went down. Okamoto-san spoke about an example where the total amount of 1 million went down to 800,000 yen. However, like a wave, the values of the stocks again went up, and they were able to make money afterward.

Okamoto-san says that the reason for doing these investments is because it appears to him that the pension for the elderly in Japan isn't going to be much, and there's a need to think about the type of life that a woman like Tapi-san would want when she has gotten older and have reached the elderly age.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
