https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/202601/20260110PM.md; last accessed: 20260111

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Thoughts on Japanese Prime Minister Takaichi's Foreign Diplomacy 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-11

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about his thoughts on Japanese Prime Minster Takaichi's foreign diplomacy.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uXjC4JR24cw; last accessed: 20260111

> 高市首相の対中国外交について思う事｜岡本吉起塾ch

## --

Okamoto-san begins with the question: What attitude should a person have when faced with someone he doesn't like?

According to Okamoto-san, due to the tension between China and Japan, China has told Japan to return the panda that it has given them.

Because of this, Okamoto-san explains that Japan shouldn't depend on this sort of country, even if, as a consequence, China will not send more tourists to Japan.

Furthermore, doing things to cause problems to another country is a questionable act. Okamoto-san thinks that it's something that grown-ups don't do, nor any country for that matter, even though it may be the second largest economy (GDP) in the world.

Moreover, China does these things not accidentally but regularly.

Although Okamoto-san isn't interested in politics, and neither does he like politicians, he thinks that the current Japanese government is okay, and he wants to support it so that the zest of young Japanese people doesn't wane.

Finally, he believes that China will continue to do what it does. Neverthless, Japan cannot allow terrorism. Therefore, it is crucial that countries help one another, whether it be in terms of importing fruits from Thailand or something else.

Okamoto-san concludes that all that he's said is his own opinion and he believes that Japan doesn't need to apologize, upsetting though the environment is.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike