https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260406/20260406PM.md; last accessed: 20260407

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The fourth part in the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious" (Part 4-1) 

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-07

## Last updated: 2026-04-16T09:40

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video two weeks ago. It's the fourth part in the conversation between Okamoto-san and Mr. Kosuke Ohori, the author of "The Way to Achieve 10 Million Points in Xevious." Also, this is now part 4-1.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DHDUFkEFE4c; last accessed: 20260406

> 【文化保存】日本のゲーム文化を後世に残すために今やれることは｜マトリックス大堀康祐さん対談Part.4

## --

Okamoto-san begins with a question to Ohori-san about what encouraged him to establish a company. Ohori-san answers that when the magazine that he helped was launched, he was still in secondary school. Afterward, he also wrote other publications as well as worked as playtester at Namco in order find bugs in their games. So, little by little, he did work related to video games.

Furthermore, when he was working part-time at Namco, he was able to get to know well the chiefs at the studio such as Mr. Masanobu Endo and Mr. Kazuo Kurosu, the creator of Ribururaburu. He also reveals that during that time he received about 600 yen per hour, but the Namco chiefs invited him to have dinner and graciously paid for the meal, which, he thinks, cost about 1,500 yen. Ohori-san, for his part, wanted to return this good treatment, and Kurosu-san told him that Ohori-san should do it for the next generation.

So Ohori-san entered a video game studio where he experienced the way to create a game until he decided to be independent. However, he admits that, unfortunately, he couldn't achieve any success as video game creator, although he was able to provide support to his colleagues by launching guides, among other things. Afterward, he established a studio to achieve this objective.

Okamoto-san points out that it's really necessary to have young people who can repeatedly do a defined set of tasks.

Ohori-san agrees and he says that he wants to improve the work environment in which he admits that he had been oppressed. Still, he emphasizes that the chiefs of this industry, though several have already passed away, have really laid down a guide to help the next generation.

This is all. I end here this part of the conversation between Okamoto-san and Ohori-san.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
