https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251226/20251226PM.md; last accessed: 20251227

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Vacation in Thailand

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-27

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Ms. Tapi's YouTube Live video last night.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TLBYyVTtGUI; last accessed: 20251226

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ(25年12月26日)

## --

The topic was about Okamoto-san's vacation in Thailand.

First, Okamoto-san revealed that he's currently in Phuket without Ms. Tapi. In addition, he said that he's staying in a high-class hotel, which costs 66,000 yen per night. The room's actually a suite that's why it's so expensive. He explained that he's also doing this, because he needed to reduce his cash.

Okamoto-san then shared that he had driven a motorbike for two and a half hours going around the island. Next, he said that he had also tried out the jet ski and thought that it was a lot of fun, although he found that it's very similar to the regular motorbike.

Okamoto-san also spoke about food. He believed that Thai food are very delicious. He even showed an example of a souvenir that he's giving Ms. Tapi and his other workers. It was a mango that has a part that's covered with white chocolate. He admitted that his most favorite foods are from, first, Japan, second from Thailand, and finally, those from Italy. He said that in France there are food from Italy and Russia, because they seem to be more delicious than food from France.

Next, Okamoto-san pointed out that marijuana is allowed in Thailand. He thought that it might have been already too late when Thailand realized that other nearby countries had decided not to allow it. Also, these marijuanas are used by rolling them up like cigarettes, so it's difficult to distinguish which are marijuanas and which are cigarettes. The former, however, has a distinct smell.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike