https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260531/20260531PM.md; last accessed: 20260601

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: "Work-Life Balance"

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-06-02

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about "Work-Life Balance."

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z56u-MkU87g; last accessed: 20260601

> 【実績が物をいう】ワークライフバランスを考えるべきかを問う｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san reveals that he's already 64 years old, and will soon be 65. In addition, he says that he currently lives a comfortable life, because he had worked a lot when he was younger.

He also admits that he wasn't very studious when he entered vocational school to learn design studies, but after working and garnering achievements, he was able to obtain a high position as boss at the company by the time he was 23 years old. While he regrets that he hadn't studied more, Okamoto-san believes that achieving success in work can help a person raise his rank at the company.

He therefore advises young people to study well, particularly because at any company, a clear difference among employees in terms of position become apparent after starting work. Further, if the employee works hard each day, his bosses would give him more responsibilities, and when he's 30 years old and up, his value will be very evident in comparison with the rest who had been lazy.

Okamoto-san also emphasizes that this period during a person's 20s is the best time to strive, because it would be so much harder to get back lost time. Moreover, given that people live up to 100 years old, after retiring at 60 or 65 years old, everyone would look for ways to earn more money, because during this time they would be continuously spending money without having regular income like before.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that he was working up to the evening in his 20s and now he could relax, thus he believes that this work-life balance can also be attained if a person worked hard when he was younger. If not, now is the best time to do it, although it would be very difficult for each year that he's lost.

Before closing, I'd like to comment as my response to Okamoto-san that we must also be prepared, because there will always be people who haven't accumulated money to be able to live up to 100 years old. I believe that the situation would have been better if they had listened to our advice a long time ago.

This is all.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
