https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251224/20251224PM.md; last accessed: 20251225

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Why Chinese Tourists Have Low Civility

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-25

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk yesterday about his thoughts on the reasons why tourists from China seem to have a very low level of civility.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KGi6JmPJ3Us; last accessed: 20251224

> 中国人観光客“渡航自粛”で明るみになった『中国人の民度』の低さを語る｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san admits that he has no evidence whatsoever for the reasons that he'll be giving. That is to say, these are only his own thoughts and ideas.

Next, he explains that civility doesn't mean actions that threaten so much the peace of a community that the police should intervene. In other words, it pertains to the customs and morals that the public ought to know about.

Furthermore, Okamoto-san says that given that China respects Confucianism so much, China should have a high level of civility, but the truth is that this isn't the case.

Okamoto-san then gives two reasons for this outcome.

The first is that China had an anti-Japan education. The second is due to the cultural revolution, which according to Okamoto-san's explanation, promoted the idea that each person should think of himself.  

This means that if an action doesn't give a person any benefit, he shouldn't do it. Therefore, it isn't really a problem if I want to throw my thrash here or some other place. As a result, the civility level of the Chinese has gone down dramatically.

Also, Okamoto-san cites Mr. Deng Xiaoping who was a politician as well as a leader of China's Reform and Opening-Up Movement from December 1978 to November 1989. Okamoto-san points out that Mr. Deng himself didn't like the actual situation during those days wherein bad things like, for instance, briberies were rampant.

This is all I have for the first part of Okamoto-san's talk.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike