https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260512/20260512PM.md; last accessed: 20260513

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Nintendo's Latest Financial Report

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-13

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about Nintendo's latest financial report.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_fCmadxs-ZQ; last accessed: 20260512

> 【Switch2値上げ】任天堂の決算ニュースと株価の今後についてお話しします｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

According to the report, the great Japanese studio has attained 2.3 trillion yen in sales, double that of the previous year. Further, he says that 17 years have passed since Nintendo had last attained this figure.

Next, Okamoto-san points out that Switch 2's sales, which reach at least around 20 million units, contribute to Nintendo's success with gross revenues of around 420 billion yen.

In addition, Okamoto-san highlights that although 10,000 yen was added to the price of the Switch 2 console, the studio may have wanted to add more, up to 20,000 or 30,000 yen. Thus, as a result, Okamoto-san foresees that Nintendo will have to experience more difficulties in the future. However, Okamoto-san thinks that the value of Nintendo's shares in the stock market is actually approaching its value five years ago. Therefore, Okamoto-san foresees that the value will again soon go up. Also, to people who are worried about investing, Okamoto-san advises thinking about the average foreign exchange rate between the yen and the dollar.

Okamoto-san also reveals that he holds his Nintendo shares for the long run, explaining his good forecast. On the other hand, he says that people who only want to hold them in the short term will see the value drop for 2,500 yen, although it won't reach 5,000 yen.

Okamoto-san also reiterates that Nintendo is a studio that gives high dividends, meaning that it's very recommendable for investors in the long term.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
