https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251230/20251230PM.md; last accessed: 20251231

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Trailer of the New Game, "Stupid Never Dies"

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-31

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the new game, "Stupid Never Dies," whose trailer he just saw.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cSho3-UewOE; last accessed: 20251230

> 元カプコンクリエイター小林プロデューサー新作ついに発表『Stupid Never Dies』“ヘタレゾンビ”のキャラデザめちゃ良い！間違いなく神ゲーの予感…！？

## --

First, he introduces its producer, KobaP (Hiroyuki Kobayashi), who had been an employee at Capcom about 20 years ago. He left the studio and went to NetEase Games, which gave him money to establish a new company that is 100% owned by the said studio and where KobaP currently works.

Okamoto-san also points out that actually aside from KobaP there are two more famous producers who've established companies with the help of NetEase Games. They are Shinji Mikami, famous for being the producer of Biohazard, as well as Toshihiro Nagoshi of Like a Dragon.

However, Okamoto-san reveals that the studio has decided to end its development efforts in Japan and move them to China.

Despite this, Okamoto-san says that KobaP seems to be continuing on with his work without worrying too much, and just the other day, he had launched the trailer of his new game, "Stupid Never Dies," which is also planned for release next year.

With respect to the trailer, Okamoto-san thinks that it's a "motion picture" wherein we can meet two people, a girl and a boy, who is really a zombie, and understand in some way the relationship between the two. Okamoto-san also talks about the music, which creates very well the setting of the game in order to introduce these two characters. In addition, the design in terms of their clothing is fantastic, and Okamoto-san wonders who has helped KobaP do this part, because Okamoto-san recalls that KobaP has never designed in this way 20 years ago.

Furthermore, based on its trailer, Okamoto-san is very satisfied with this game for its spectacular graphics, its wonderful effects and its cool soundtrack. However, he thinks that KobaP and his team can add more features if only they had more money, something that NetEase Games currently doesn't have.

As with the case of Nagoshi-san's "GANG OF DRAGON," it's a magnificent action game, which, Okamoto-san thinks, isn't too difficult to play after only seeing its trailer, so he very much wants to play and buy it as well.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike