https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202511/20251114/20251114AM.md; last accessed: 20251114

> Business Stories from Prof. Joi Ito and Team: Secured Finance AG

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-11-14

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the salient points in Prof. Joi Ito and team's general meeting this morning. 

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bN5QRuNXRho; last accessed: 20251114

> 日本円の金利カーブをオンチェーンへ：Secured Financeが進めるJPYC × 固定金利レンディングの実装｜今週のweb3ニュースまとめ｜weekly gm｜2025年11月14日 

## --

As usual, Comugi-san provided reports about the latest developments in cryptocurrencies. 

He said that while Stablecoin has become much more stable than before, banks like J.P. Morgan would, of course, want to reduce as much risk as possible when dealing with cryptocurrencies. It's for this reason that they've been forming alliances with other entities and are continuing to convert existing assets into tokens using Blockchain technology. 

Furthermore, Comugi-san pointed out that the current situation that we are in with cryptocurrencies is like the current AI bubble in that the value of these things has been largely hyped, and Comugi-san thought that we've entered the phase wherein investors have begun to feel anxious. 

Despite this, about 7 million British people (12% of the population) are said to own virtual currencies. Comugi-san explained that it's because they believe that it is here where we're all headed anyway.

Next, for this Friday's meeting, the topic was about Secured Finance AG, the company founded by Mr. Masa "Senshi" Kikuchi, who is also its current CEO and the main speaker today.

First, Mr. Senshi explained that we are moving from the "Off-Chain" or traditional finance toward what he called an "On-Chain" type, where in five years Stablecoin, Ethereum and other virtual currencies would become part of a new "On-Chain" financial world, which uses the existing traditional financial platforms. 

He cited as example the Exchange Traded Fund (ETF), which had previously been non-existent in our present vocabulary related to finance. 

In addition, while the size of the new On-Chain financial world amounts to 200 billion USD, markedly smaller than the 135 trillion USD of traditional finance, it's still huge and will become even larger, by as much as 500 times, according to Mr. Senshi.

He further explained that On-Chain finance will be driven by a system where virtual currency, in particular, Stablecoin, could be turned into a tokenized Real World Asset (RWA), and vice-versa. The purpose of this is to increase the security levels when making transactions.

Mr. Senshi also talked about the product architecture that their company envisions as a model for this On-Chain financial world. He listed three layers: the Asset Management Layer, the Credit Layer and the Base Layer.

The Base Layer provides their fixed-income through standard lending whose details like pricing are available to the public. 

The Credit Layer processes transactions related to the "USDFC" Stablecoin.

Finally, there's the Asset Management Layer where the fund management work inside their so-called "Strategy Vault." 

He recounted that about four years ago, they were providing fixed-rate lending using the Ethereum cryptocurrency, but found that people were gradually moving toward making transactions with higher costing assets, such as real estate properties. This eventually led to their decision to use Stablecoin and RWA as their virtual currency and asset token respectively.

Meanwhile, their business plan involves buying more Stablecoins using the earnings they've gained through the virtual currencies that they hold and the volatility of market.

While people could still buy and sell virtual currencies, their goal is for people, who do not want to sell, to let their company hold these things for them, and, in return, Secured Finance AG would give them a certain amount of interest that the company has earned.

Mr. Senshi reiterated that using Blockchain technology supposedly increases the security level of the transactions, especially because people are prone to committing human errors.

After his presentation, Ms. Mariko Nishimura commented that Mr. Senshi's core team is noticeably composed of only Japanese members, to which Mr. Senshi replied that it wasn't really his intention, but was instead something that came about when they started the company. He insisted that the business is striving toward a more global approach nonetheless.

He further explained that real estate properties are high-value assets that aren't sold as much as he and his team would want. He revealed that, just like movie copyrights, things that aren't so visible to people could be tokenized so that they'd become more easily transferable, even more so than corporate shares.

Thus, he said, their company aims to hold these tokens as part of their many assets.

Afterward, Comugi-san noted that Mr. Senshi's explanation about the Asset Management Layer wasn't too clear, and he wanted to understand some more what is really going on in this layer and, in particular, inside the "Strategy Vault."

Next, Comugi-san pointed out that tokenizing unused assets might be too innovative for people to understand, because currencies have been devised to make the exchanging of assets easier, and not the other way around.

In closing, Mr. Senshi agreed with Ms. Mariko in her comment that he could further explain some of the things that have been left unanswered in another presentation. 

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike