https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20250908/20250908PM.md; last accessed: 20250909

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The High-frequency Trader

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-09-09

## Last updated: 2025-09-10T09:30

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the basic idea of earning through investing in stocks.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=geN_J2PTEhI; last accessed: 20250908

> [Stock investment beginner] Making money from stocks is harder than I thought… Do you understand ...

## --

First, he says that the basic idea is that we buy stocks when their value is cheap, and we sell when expensive. Since there's a tendency for people to feel dejected when the value of their stocks dramatically goes down, let's recall that the movement of these stocks is a wave, so that we can therefore predict that there'll later be a new change that will again bring about its rise.

Okamoto-san believes that the value of stocks drops significantly two times each year, so he advises that we continue to invest after making a profit, buying more when the value is currently cheap. Also, Okamoto-san reveals that he himself is still continuously investing every month, and it doesn't really matter if the amount is 100,000 yen (approx. 50,000 PHP) each month or only 30,000 yen (approx. 15,000 PHP).

Moreover, he points out that we should take into consideration the tax given to the government when we earn money through stocks. Right now in Japan, it's basically 20%, a figure lower than the one for digital currencies, whose overall tax can reach as much as 55%.

Finally, I want to say that earning through stocks is certainly possible, although we also need to clarify the various ways of doing it. In this case, Okamoto-san recommends what we understand is the type of work that a high-frequency trader does, even though it appears to me that he has more structure or uses a definite plan.

However, I still think that it's a lot easier to understand products like Plan Ahead from the bank, BPI, or the MP2 of Pag-Ibig, a government agency, which both preserve the principal while earning interest. The interest is, of course, a lot lower, hardly at 8.5% per annum, and its total duration time requires five years, but because of this, we don't have the problem of worrying about when to buy or sell the stocks within those five years.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike