https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251201/20251201PM.md; last accessed: 20251202

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Studio CyberAgent and the recent change in its leadership

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-02

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about the studio, CyberAgent, and its recent change in leadership. 

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2_z5ojyCd14; last accessed: 20251202

> サイバーエージェント社長交代！創業者・藤田晋元社長が若くして一線を退いた理由は｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san reveals that this studio is one that he's invested in, because unlike others, it produces masterpieces one after another.

In addition, five years ago, the ex-president, Mr. Susumu Fujita, expressed his goal of finding a new company president, and in the spring of 2022, he chose from around 22 candidates. For three and a half years, he and his team prepared well this position for the winner. Finally, Mr. Takahiro Yamauchi was voted to be the next president.

According to Okamoto-san, the truth is that Fujita-san is still young at 52 years old. But Okamoto-san agrees that Fujita-san should already handover the position to the next person, because this person also has to be trained.

So "how can the son of the founder be trained to become the next president?"

Okamoto-san explains that while the number of shares of the company that a person owns influences this decision, we also need to analyze the merits and demerits of each candidate.

Okamoto-san points out that CyberAgent has a subsidiary, Cygames, that is a studio well-known in Japan after, of course, Nintendo for its capability to produce bestsellers several times over. Because of this, Okamoto-san is very excited for the news and, in particular, he wonders if Yamauchi-san could produce more bestsellers like with the ex-president before. Okamoto-san mentions that even Mr. Tadashi Yanai of Uniqlo retired from the clothing company, but later returned, because the next president couldn't surpass him.

Next, Okamoto-san says that for shareholders, what's most important is to put the best manager in the position. Okamoto-san adds that he doesn't agree with the idea that the previous president would return if the next one doesn't do well, because he prefers that the most excellent person be already leading the company.

Also, he says that it's difficult to pass the position up to the third person, therefore, the most excellent person with subordinates like "The Knights of the Round Table," may be the best course of action. However, he adds that a founder, who's achieved success, actually has several rare qualities like, for example, luck and decisiveness.

In conclusion, Okamoto-san reiterates that he agrees with the decision to pass the position onto the next person, because it helps raise the success rate of the studio even by only 1%.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike