https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20250911/20250911PM.md; last accessed: 20250912

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The challenges that former Editor-in-Chief Bakataaru Kato experienced after leaving Famitsu

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-09-11

## Last updated: 2025-09-13T12:09

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's video four years ago.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=930zB4cBqyE; last accessed: 20250912

> 【コラボ】ファミ通編集長退任後の苦労話を聞いてみた(バカタール加藤さん対談)後編

## --

It's the final part of the conversation that he had with Mr. Bakataaru Kato about the challenges that the former Editor-in-Chief of Famitsu experienced after leaving the publishing company.

But first, we'll need to clarify that Mr. Bakataaru Kato had been the Editor-in-Chief of Famitsu for seven years, beginning from 2002 until 2009. In addition, during the first part of the conversation, he revealed that he was like a section chief of a corporation, that is, a position one level lower than the department chief, also meaning that his salary wasn't really that high.

He says that he left Famitsu when the next generation, the fifth, assumed the directorship position. With the intention of launching a book later on, he made several blogs, like one so that parents would have an idea where they could bring their children, another about food, and much more. But what really interested him most was that he wanted to show that he, the writer, had worked at Famitsu, a place which he could no longer return to after "graduating" from there. He also points out that as a professional writer, obviously, his writings had to be more spectacular than those written by others.

Furthermore, he revealed that actually while he was at Famitsu, they were still using printed papers for their magazines, although Mr. Bakataaru Kato had already foreseen the potential of the web so that two or three yeas before leaving Famitsu, he created the project, Fami-web, within the company.

Much later, in 2014, Mr. Bakataaru Kato was invited to work at a new KADOKAWA studio. It was called Walker47, and where he worked on providing users regional information through their mobile devices. However, although they were able to disseminate information to 1,952 regions nationwide, the service ended in 2015 when it merged with another studio called Walkerplus.

Afterward, Mr. Bakataaru Kato experienced more failures with respect to work, even though he wants to consider them as fun moments in his life.

For example, he created a channel on the nico-nico platform where he spoke about video games while eating gyoza. Although he knew that this idea wouldn't make money, he followed the advice of his boss. However, he further explains that he did things, because they appeared to him interesting and fun, even though he found that he couldn't get more than 15 paying members after one year.

It didn't take long before a friend from a TV channel advised him to work on a new project together with him. Soon he found out that his friend had left the channel to establish a new company, and he was invited to come join him. The truth is that it was a Chinese company that had a subsidiary in Singapore, which was being led by Japanese bosses. Meanwhile, its development office was in Shanghai. The company gave Mr. Bakataaru Kato 150,000 yen (approx. 75,000 PHP) each month as his base salary, which could be further increased later, and in addition, more importantly, an unspecified amount of cryptocurrency. Before, in his prior work, he revealed that he had received 400,000 yen (approx. 200,000 PHP) each month.

However, the company came to the industry too early. It was during the time when the value of cryptocurrencies including Bitcoin and Ethereum was going down significantly, and the day arrived when Mr. Bakataaru Kato didn't receive any more paychecks.

Given that he gave money to his spouse every month, he realized that he'd soon have no more money left. He then applied to work as a driver in a company that delivered goods. He began work from 08:00 in the morning, although he had to arrive at the office at 07:30. He finished at 10:00 or 11:00 in the evening during days when he also had to close the office. But after only one month, he felt that he couldn't continue with this type of schedule, because he didn't have anything more aside from waking up very early, working as a driver, going to bed very late, and then repeating the whole thing all over again. He thought that he had to do another job, something that would allow him to use his mind or skills more. So he telephoned his boss to tell him that he could no longer continue with the job, because he needed 100,000 more than the 200,000 that he had received for a month's work. This was in order to raise his family. As a response, the boss let him create a website with his son for 100,000 yen (approx. 50,000 PHP). Mr. Bakataaru Kato says that the company didn't yet have one, and because of that, he was paid some 300,000 yen (approx. 150,000 PHP) in total for all the work.

After this, a person asked him his advice about a game that he was developing, thus becoming the start of his working again in PR (Public Relations).

Finally, Mr. Bakataaru Kato advises us to do what interests us, because it's easier to strive when we're doing what we want. He points out that in the end, the things that we've worked so hard to achieve are never worthless.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike