https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260112/20260112PM.md; last accessed: 20260113

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: What is the probability of replicating his life as well as his success?

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-13

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the question: What is the probability of replicating his life and his success?

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=svtMJeHQav8; last accessed: 20260112

> 人生成功者の再現性ってとれる？必要なのは天才を引き寄せる〇〇の良さ｜岡本吉起塾ch

## --

First, he answers that the probability is very low.

Next, he tries to explain his answer by pointing out that it's because he's been lucky. He also says that his colleagues whom he met in his life are invaluable for him to be able to achieve success.

Furthermore, he says that he thinks that Capcom's president, Mr. Kenzo Tsujimoto, is the luckiest, because he's able to survive, even though his key employees like Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto had left the studio, and Capcom was almost in bankruptcy. But with his vineyard, Tsujimoto-san was able to amazingly survive in the end.

Furthermore, Okamoto-san gives the example of his own life, which, he thinks, also tells a fantastic story. After working for another company, he founded his own studio, Game Republic, and tried to find exceptional talent as well. But because he wasn't lucky enough, he lost a lot of money until he was bankrupt, in addition to a debt of 1.7 billion yen. However, through the launching of a mobile app called Monster Strike, he was able to earn a lot of money again. He returned the money that he had borrowed, and now lives a comfortable life in Malaysia.

Lastly, Okamoto-san concludes that although a person were to do the exact same things that he had done, he believes that times have changed, and, therefore, the probability of being able to replicate his life as well as his success is low.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike