https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20250904/20250904PM.md; last accessed: 20250905

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Ex-president of ASCII Media Works, Masaaki Tsukuda's Story

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-09-05

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's conversation with Mr. Masaaki Tsukuda three years ago.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hMeA7KE_EsA; last accessed: 20250904

> 【対談】元アスキー・メディアワークス社長とゲーム雑誌について語る#1

## --

First and foremost, Tsukuda-san was the president of ASCII Media Works, and this time around, he's sharing with us his story back when he started his career and met Okamoto-san.

He says that he met Okamoto-san when he visited Capcom's office in Kabuki-cho, Osaka City about 40 years ago. It was for his work with Komputiiku, a KADOKAWA company that wanted him to write articles about arcade games.

But he explains that actually, Komputiiku was a publisher of computer magazines, and they hired Tsukudan-san to translate manuals in English to the Japanese language. Furthermore, he reveals that he had embellished the stories in the text, and although he had at first thought that his bosses would be angry, the truth was that they liked what he had done. Also, the bosses told him that they'd develop the stories.

So Tsukuda-san continued to work at the company, and when the arcade game, "Xevious," was released, he decided to work harder. At this point in time, not many people did this type of work, particularly because they thought that, as in the case of the Famicom (Family Computer), the console would only last for one or two years. This is why professional writers didn't want to go into this genre, even though the KADOKAWA publisher, where Tsukuda-san had worked, little by little became more for video games than for general-purpose computers.

This is all. 

Of course, there are many more things that were said like, for instance, the part in their talk where it was mentioned that Okamoto-san actually bought a house in Denen Chofu, an affluent city outside central Tokyo.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike