https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260105/20260105PM.md; last accessed: 20260106

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Shortest Path to Obtain 500 Million Yen and Become Rich

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-05

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and team's video yesterday about their conversation with a 40-year-old woman on the shortest path to obtain 500 million yen and become rich.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSORDntTHA4; last accessed: 20260105

> 【人生相談】40歳女性が富裕層(資産5億円)に到達する最短ルートは？｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san says that a woman, who doesn't want to reveal her name nor her face, has visited him to ask him how she can achieve financial success. Furthermore, she has been a viewer of Okamoto-san's channel for many years, and wants to receive his advice face-to-face in Malaysia.

The woman is also married and has a son (or daughter). Her husband currently works, but she thinks that his salary won't go up anymore. At the start, she wants her son to be able to go to a private school, and knows that the payments would include not only the tuition of the main school, but also those of the juku (or additional schools), among others.

Okamoto-san responds that his own daughter studied in public schools from grade school until high school. Moreover, she was able to go to another country for further studies after graduating from high school. Okamoto-san thinks that there's no difference between private and public schools in Japan. So he doesn't agree with the idea of wanting more money for this type of expenses. He also explains that, as in his case, children who don't have a lot of money at the start would learn the concept of striving hard in order achieve success in a way that is better than those who already grew up wealthy immediately.

The woman admits that Okamoto-san's argument in all these points is correct, and therefore reveals that in fact she wants more money for herself.

Given that the woman wants 500 million yen, she asks Okamoto-san the secret in order to achieve this goal.

Okamoto-san explains that in Japan, 200 or 300 million yen is the maximum amount of money that an ordinary worker can ever save in his entire life.

So, according to Okamoto-san, to obtain 500 million yen, she shouldn't spend what she earns. He also explains that in general, people save money while spending it, so he thinks that they'll never reach 500 million yen.

However, if she were to consider that she can spend only 100,000 yen from her actual income of 150,000 yen per month, Okamoto-san advises her that she could invest the remaining 50,000 yen in the S&P platform, for example, wherein she could obtain 8.5% profit.

But Okamoto-san also warns that as in his investment in Unity, he's lost over 50% of his money, even though he still hopes that the value of his shares would go up again, because the values of the stocks in the stock market always go up and down like a wave in the sea. So this means that when the value is cheap, people should invest more, and should sell when it's expensive.

In addition, when people say that we have to invest more, the truth is that we have to prepare for a fall. In the same way, when people are afraid to invest more, we should invest more.

Okamoto-san also says that when the investor has earned 300 million yen like the investors of Softbank, it's easier to increase it many times over using the 8.5% of S&P.

However, Okamoto-san reveals that this amount of 300 million yen can be used quite well even at 5% profit, in which the Japanese government gets 1% as tax. He estimates that a person can receive one million yen each month through this method.

Finally, Okamoto-san and Ms. Tapi are aiming at 600 million yen in order to live a life that is comfortable for them. To achieve this, they convert into cash their shares when they're expensive, and invest them again when the shares are cheap on a regular basis.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike