https://github.com/usbong/personal/tree/main/milestone/2025/202508/20250821AM/20250821AM.md; last accessed: 20250821

> Using Electronic Health Records to provide Universal Health Care in North Bohol, Philippines: Why is the system harder to use than Viber or TikTok?

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-08-21

## Last updated: 2025-08-22T13:35

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the University of the Philippines - Manila Standards and Interoperability Lab (UPM SILab)'s Zoom webinar last July 9, 2025.

The topic was on making use of Electronic Health Records (EHC) to provide Universal Health Care in North Bohol.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ms44_U_l_RM; last accessed: 20250821

> UPM SILab IOL 201 - 09 July 2025 - Leveraging EHRs for UHC in North Bohol | Full Recording 

## --

The presenter, Dr. Reina Juno Sumatra, spoke about the use of iClinicSys EHR in North Bohol. The system was developed by the Department of Health (DOH), and is said to be recognized as one of the best in interoperability, although capacity building in the form of user training still has to continue.

During the Q&A session after the presentation, DOH Undersecretary Dr. Mario Villaverde posed the question on why people can use Viber and TikTok but are having a hard time using the EHR.

In my opinion, it's because the participation of the people in the target communities isn't necessary. The Philippine health care system will continue with or without them. 

It follows the same line of thinking as the observation that people dying won't stop the world from moving. More people are being created anyway. 

Meanwhile, development of the EHR can continue in another community (or country) where people are more inclined toward such things.

In this regard, I don't see the health care system in the Philippines improving unless the rate of childbirth is reduced.

The mere presence of street children and beggars, among other types of homeless people, is already an indicator that the system cannot accommodate everyone while truly providing health care for all.

Moreover, given this situation, in the frontlines within the health system itself, we find that there are people who are willing to lie and steal in order to make ends meet.

This results to misinformation, which, in turn, translates to more work for those who already do.

Therefore, by decreasing the rate of childbirth, there will be less students crowding places of learning like the public schools. Further, these same students will later have the skills necessary to find jobs that would give them income enough for their daily expenses.

In the end, when the people necessary to do the job aren't constantly in-need of money for the sake of their exponentially growing families, I believe that using the EHR would be as easy as Viber or TikTok.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike