https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20250910/20250910PM.md; last accessed: 20250911

> Stories about Politics from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba announces his resignation

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-09-11

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about Japanese Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba's resignation.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RvDbX2vQR_w; last accessed: 20250911

> [Prime Minister Ishiba announces resignation] What do you think about Japan's current electoral s...

## --

Okamoto-san points out several reasons why Ishiba-san didn't receive enough votes during the election.

First, he explains that in the previous election within the LDP (Liberal Democratic Party), Ms. Sanae Takaichi actually received good ratings, although the party in the end voted for Ishiba-san, and it's now said that the government's problem is the fault of the LDP, the majority party.

Next, Okamoto-san says that during his term, Ishiba-san maintained Japan's position with respect to how to deal with the U.S. and China. That is, to be neutral, even though another person would, perhaps, lean more toward the U.S. or China.

However, in this case, what Japanese citizens need, according to Okamoto-san's explanation, is to have money through higher salaries, so that they can buy cars instead of depending on bicycles. In addition, since Ishiba-san wasn't able to resolve the problem of foreigners in Japan, something that arose and came to the limelight during his term, it seems that the population now wants a change in the leadership. He further explains that foreign workers were allowed to come to Japan in order to help in the industries where there aren't anymore enough Japanese who'll do the jobs.

Finally, Okamoto-san says that he prefers that the direction of the government be guided by voters who're ages 20 to 50 years old, because they're the ones who are working and are striving hard.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike