https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260313PM.md; last accessed: 20260314

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Video Game Industry

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-14

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Tapi-san's YouTube Live Video with the topic: the video game industry. 

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BZl-DJHlRGE; last accessed: 20260313

> ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ(26年3月13日)

## --

Okamoto-san asks Tapi-san about the reason why Japanese studios like Nintendo, Sega and Capcom have started to give much higher salaries than before to recent graduates.

Tapi-san answers that maybe it's because the studios want to attract outstanding graduates.

In fact, according to Okamoto-san's explanation, Nintendo employs graduates from top universities like, for example, the University of Tokyo and Kyoto University.

Next, he points out that it's because when a graduate passes Nintendo's exam and shares to his family as well as friends the news, he ought to have a very positive feeling.

Further, Okamoto-san explains his experience managing his own studio in which although the truth is that studios don't want to pay so much, especially when they also don't earn as much, if outstanding graduates don't come to their studios, they'll have more problems in terms of receiving outsourcing jobs. So, if no outstanding graduate would want to come work for them, they wouldn't receive any income at all.

With regard to this point, Okamoto-san also says that there are actually many varieties of jobs that a studio can do, that is, it can specialize solely in the graphics, the soundtrack or some other.

Finally, I'd like to share with you two answers from Okamoto-san when viewers were asking him questions. In the first one, he mentions that he's met with many people from the video game industry including Mr. Hiroshi Yamauchi as well as Mr. Satoru Iwata, although not Mr. Gunpei Yokoi, all from Nintendo. But one great person, also unforgettable, for him to meet was Mr. Shigeru Miyamoto when he was still Kakaricho or section chief. Afterward, in the second answer, Okamoto-san reveals his most favorite games: Makaimura (Ghost n' Goblins), SonSon, and Gradius. Tapi-san, for her part, shares with us that, for her, it's Super Mario Bros. 3.

This is all. 

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike
