https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260313-2.md; last accessed: 20260313

> Arguing in favor of investing with established businesses, instead of starting a new venture in order to find a stable source of income during old age

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-13

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to present to you my argument in favor of investing with established businesses, instead of starting a new venture for the sake of finding a stable source of income during old age.

The topic is timely, because we are again at a time when the prices of commodities are once more rising due to another war in the Middle East, causing oil prices to go up, just like in 2022 when Russia attacked Ukraine. 

Remember that oil is used most apparently in the transport of commodities from one place to another. Thus, as the price of oil goes up, so, too, does the cost of these commodities at local stores rise. 

Faced with this situation, many rank-and-file workers in the Philippines are already foreseeing their eventual need for money in the years leading to their retirement. They will likely not want to retire, if possible.

However, even if a person can continue to work at the same company after reaching retirement age, the income won't be as much. In most cases, it will be cut by half upon getting relegated from a regular employee to a part-timer.  

But just like with those who've chosen to become self-employed after leaving an established corporation early in their careers or after retiring in their 60s, it appears to me that, right now, the only reasonable path to surviving financially is to continue to work.

And yet, since a great majority of self-employed workers will be trying to create their own businesses after leaving their respective establishments in their 50s or 60s, I predict that they will fail in their new ventures.

It is in this line of thought that the retirement pension plan through the Social Security System (SSS) was established in the first place. Still, the amount of money that we can expect retirees to receive will only be meager, perhaps, covering only half, at best, of their actual expenditures, unless they make drastic reductions in their already unostentatious lifestyles.

More specifically, 5,000 PHP per month for a social pension can hardly be considered sufficient, except as a bonus. In this regard, a booster option has been recently added to the SSS's contribution scheme, so that common people could supposedly get more money when they retire.
  
Yet as with contributions to products offered by private businesses like the Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI) through the BPI AIA Aspire, which gives out cash payouts, the amount of money that a person will eventually receive will, at best, only be equal to what he had given prior, especially after taking into consideration inflation, along with the condition that he is able to live up to 100 years old in the case of Aspire.

In the end, from my perspective, any amount of money obtained from working will not be enough to cover a comfortable lifestyle through old age. Whether as a regular employee or a self-employed individual, it will be necessary to comprehend the difficulty of making money as well as the value of reducing one's expenses in order to survive during our later years. Therefore, I would advise doing work that supports in some specific way an already established organization, rather than playing buy and sell online. Meanwhile, making continuous investments in both government and private entities appears more profitable to me than gambling in a new venture that would likely not preserve the principal capital. All in all, having learned the skills to discern which investment products would be most apt for an individual will, no doubt, affect the outcome.

This is all. 

Thank you!

Regards,

Mike
