https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202603/20260323/20260323PM.md; last accessed: 20260324

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Stock Market Investments

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-03-24

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about investing in the stock market.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dkJptw88FLQ; last accessed: 20260323

> 皆さんなんで始めへんの？株式投資が如何に重要かをアツく語ります｜岡本吉起塾ch

## --

First, he explains that investing in the stock market seems to have a negative impression on many people, and points out that a long time ago, Japanese grandparents deposited money in the post office, because it had 7% interest. However, after 30 years, Japan's growth has stopped, and many taxes have also been added.

Further, the salaries of Japanese workers hardly go up despite inflation. Also, due to inflation, the values of assets have gone done so much that people should increase what they own.

Okamoto-san reveals that to do this, the Japanese shouldn't spend all their money, and instead should use a percentage to invest in the stock market like S&P wherein money is forecasted to earn an average of 8% every year through the stocks there.  

Next, Okamoto-san describes that investing in a company is like investing in a child whom he guides in order to later achieve success. Of course, he admits that he's committed mistakes such as his investment in Unity, in which he has lost around 60% or 70% in unrealized gain. Still, Okamoto-san insists that what's important is to believe in the company and in that it will be able to grow in the end.

Okamoto-san also clarifies that it's different from the general advice to invest in diverse companies in order to avoid risks like in the Exchange Traded Fund (ETF), because he prefers to focus only on the companies in which he believes.

Finally, Okamoto-san reiterates that in Japan where a tax of 55% is levied on income, there's no other way to acquire wealth apart from investing in the stock market. For this reason, he advises us to begin doing it right away.

Before ending, I'd also like to respond to Okamoto-san's advice about writing our comments. I think that the stock market is a way to put excess cash in a definite place, though I wouldn't want to use the stock market for my everyday expenses.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike