https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260413/20260413PM.md; last accessed: 20260414

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Miho Nakayama (RIP) and the 2 billion yen inheritance that his eldest son has relinquished

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-14

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about Ms. Miho Nakayama (RIP) and the 2 billion yen inheritance that his eldest son has relinquished.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TpOmYMkCHEU; last accessed: 20260413

> 故・中山美穂さんの遺産20億円、息子はなぜ放棄したのか｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san explains that it's because the son isn't capable of paying the tax that costs around 1.1 billion yen. Further, given that the son currently lives in France, when he returns to Japan, he must pay the tax within only 10 months.

Okamoto-san also points out that if the inheritance were already in cash, the son would probably be able to pay the tax, but he thinks that this isn't so in this case.

In addition, Okamoto-san recounts that in Japan, the courts process 90% of inheritance cases that cost less than 10 million yen. Furthermore, the lower the amount, the more serious the conflict.

Next, Okamoto-san reveals that this inheritance tax doesn't exist in China, while in the U.S. it appears to him that up to about 2.1 billion yen, no tax needs to be paid or not as much. 

So Okamoto-san recalls that this high tax system in Japan is actually very old and began to be used since the Russo-Japanese War.

Okamoto-san also points out that foreigners who come to Japan get special treatment such as discounts when they visit the clinic or hospital for consultation, something that Okamoto-san doesn't like, because Japanese tax is being used for them, while when he visits a hospital in Malaysia, he must pay 100% of the expenses.

Finally, he concludes that he wants the use as well as the collection of taxes be made better in Japan.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
