https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202601/20260121/20260121PM.md; last accessed: 20260122

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Changes in the Taxes for the Super Rich

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-01-22

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the changes in the taxes for the super rich.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=chPw-SMXrkw; last accessed: 20260121

> これって正解なん？超富裕層への課税強化「年間所得6億円超」に引き下げで調整｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san says that last year, a tax was introduced for people who have over 3 billion yen in annual income. However, this time, for the coming year, it'll be lowered to only 600 million yen, because it's supposed that people who earn this amount are already rich.

Further, according to Okamoto-san, there are about 2,000 people who earn so much, so it's expected that 100 billion yen could be received as tax through this measure.

Next, Okamoto-san explains that, of course, there are many perspectives to analyze this. For example, for the government, given that they are reducing taxes, they need to think about from where money can be obtained for the country.

Okamoto-san also reveals that the truth is that he earns 600 million yen each year so this new measure will apply to him.

He explains that originally taxes go down after exceeding 100 million yen in annual income. He points out that in reality, there aren't many people who have this annual salary so, in general, they earn through the buying and selling of stocks. The taxes for this is generally only 20% for everything.

Moreover, he explains that when an employee earns income, he actually receives it after paying tax, so if this employee uses this money to buy and sell stocks, what he earns afterward needs to be reduced again by the second tax. Therefore, Okamoto-san thinks that this isn't a good rule, because Japan encourages the population to invest in the stock market, but when a person earns a lot from his investments, he receives more taxes.

Okamoto-san also thinks that Japan wants to stop rich foreigners who want to move to Japan, or the Japanese who want to live in other countries, because when Okamoto-san himself chooses a country to live in, he always considers the one that has low taxes. He points out that investors invest online, so they don't anymore need to live in Japan to do this.

Furthermore, he says that his Chinese friend has 300 billion yen of assets, and after half a year he already has 600 billion yen. Okamoto-san explains that of course it's like this, because his assets follow a wave. Still, he believes that his friend is super rich.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that he likes the current administration and the prime minister a lot, but he's worried that this measure from the government would also reduce the people who want to aspire higher in terms of their quality of life, in addition to those who want to live in Japan.

This is all.

Thank you. 

Regards,

Mike