https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251222/20251222PM.md; last accessed: 20251223

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The JUNGLIA Amusement Park in Okinawa

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-23

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about JUNGLIA, an amusement park in Okinawa.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HJs2rKlDDk4; last accessed: 20251222

> 過疎っていると酷評される沖縄の『JUNGLIA(ジャングリア)』実際のところは…｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

Okamoto-san says that he's returned to Okinawa in Japan where he visited JUNGLIA. In addition, since it's in the south and he came during December, Okamoto-san thinks that the climate isn't different from the one in Malaysia.

Also, when Okamoto-san went, there were other visitors and he believes that the longest time to wait in front of a ride was 100 minutes.

Next, he shares that there was a tram that both children and grown-ups could enjoy, particularly because the staff was very kind and always smiled.

Moreover, the tram helped visitors go up to higher places of the amusement park, even though they probably walked most of the time. However, Okamoto-san thinks that there weren't more places to be able to rest after walking so much.

Okamoto-san also says that the truth is that there weren't really a lot of attractions in JUNGLIA if we compare it with Disneyland or Universal Studios. Nevertheless, with respect to the ticket price, he thinks that it wasn't expensive, although he says that the place would be too hot if the visitors went there in another season like spring, and especially if there are other visitors. 

Moreover, there were children's rides that probably weren't for grown-ups. However, Okamoto-san was able to try out the Dino Safari where he moved very quickly on a 4WD car, and encountered dinosaurs along the way.

With regard to the food, the rib eye and the veal were very delicious for Okamoto-san.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that it's an amusement park for people who still haven't experienced it. Yet he believes that people, who've already experienced it before, could still want to go if they're accompanying newcomers. He says that while traveling to Okinawa only for this probably isn't recommendable, Okamoto-san advises visitors to pass by JUNGLIA if they want something like this while they're traveling to other tourist spots in Okinawa. 

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike