https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260409/20260409AM.md; last accessed: 20260409

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The YouTube Live video with Kazuma Kaneko, the creator of "Tsukuyomi: The Divine Hunter"

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-09

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's YouTube Live video last night.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lU5cXJJpdgQ; last accessed: 20260408

> 【金子一馬さん出演】ゲームプロデューサー岡本吉起のYouTubeライブ（26年4月8日） 

## --

It's about the conversation between Okamoto-san and Mr. Kazuma Kaneko, a well-known illustrator in the world of video games especially in Japan as well as the creator of "Tsukuyomi: The Divine Hunter" for mobile phones. It was quite long, more than an hour, so I'm going to highlight only some of the parts in their conversation.

First, Okamoto-san shares the announcement that Mr. Yoshihisa Kishimoto, creator of Double Dragon and Kunio-kun, has passed away. He recalls that when he saw Kunio-kun at the arcades, it inspired him to create a game that could surpass it. Thus, Okamoto-san and his team at Capcom launched Final Fight for the arcades. Further, when Double Dragon came out, they were already thinking about launching a new Street Fighter, that is, Street Fighter II, with the team that remained after some of the members who developed the first game left.

Next, Kaneko-san recounts the first time he met Okamoto-san. He says that it was at a party where several video game creators met. Kaneko-san was the illustrator who promoted the second Megami Tensei game from Atlus after seeing that the first game had a lot of potential. Aside from this series, he worked as illustrator of Maken X for the Sega Dreamcast console.

Okamoto-san, for his part, recalls the name NAOMI when Kaneko-san mentioned the Dreamcast. He explains that in those days many names were being tried out to name Sega's arcade machine until NAOMI become the most memorable one. Okamoto-san also reveals that it was a very easy system to use for creating video games.

Afterward, there were several questions from the audience for them. For example, which game is Kaneko-san's most favorite. He answered that it's Tsukuyomi. He also recounts that he had watched a lot of MTV not only for the music but also for the fashion, and imagined that he could combine fashion with other media like video games. With respect to stocks, he admits that he doesn't buy and sell them, unlike Okamoto-san who advises very much this practice to invest.

This is all. 

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike