https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260409/20260409PM.md; last accessed: 20260410

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The arrest of a middle school student for entering without permit an abandoned house in the island of Okinawa

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-10

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture yesterday evening.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o2lL0gUgZEI; last accessed: 20260409

> 心霊スポットに埋蔵1億円！盗むとどんな罪に問われるの？｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

It's about the arrest of a middle school student for entering without permission an abandoned house in the island of Okinawa.

In the video, Okamoto-san explains that the house has been vacant for 20 years, and he thinks that maybe the student thought that he could enter it without having any permit.

Furthermore, the student found a very large amount totaling 100 million yen.

Okamoto-san hopes that the future of the student won't be compromised, but he's sure that the court will ask him many questions to identify which specific crime he's committed.

For example, how many times did the student take money? So the student is basically involved in the crime of theft, although he's still in middle school.

Before ending, I'd like to comment as response to Okamoto-san that there are parents who justify theft by teaching that it's permissible if it's to pay for their son or daughter's school tuition. Howevever, when the child gets married and has his own children, he'll use the same excuse again, and I predict that the amount that he and his parents would need will never be enough, because their family becomes larger and larger. In the first place, why do the parents have one or more children, even though they aren't capable of working and making enough money? In the end, they have too many expenses in relation to their income.

This is all. 

Regards,

Mike