https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202604/20260407/20260407PM.md; last accessed: 20260408

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: Collaboration between Sony and Honda to develop an Electric Vehicle has ended

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-04-08

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the collaboration between Sony and Honda to develop an Electric Vehicle (EV).

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ePBJpgZve6Y; last accessed: 20260408

> 【やっぱりか】ソニー×ホンダ合同のEV開発が頓挫したワケ｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

First, Okamoto-san reiterates that since a long time ago he's not agreed to producing a 100% EV, so the announcement that both companies have decided to end this collaboration doesn't surprise him.

Next, Okamoto-san explains the reason why a hybrid vehicle is better, something that Toyota also promotes.

He points out that an EV needs up to 45 minutes to fully charge its battery. Also, this task is the same as what we should regularly do to charge the battery of our mobile phones. Moreover, there are incidents that have been reported to the public that these batteries could catch fire.

Okamoto-san then gives alternatives to generate energy. One is nuclear energy, which is what Okamoto-san advises, though almost everyone disagrees. Another is wind energy, albeit Okamoto-san points out several problems including noise, low frequency, equipment that breaks down and others. He also gives solar energy, but notes that it's prone to theft as well as requires the destruction of the natural environment.

For these reasons, it seems that using petroleum is the best for driving vehicles, though the problem of pollution arises. Therefore, Okamoto-san concludes that a hybrid vehicle that uses both petroleum and electricity is the best.

This is all. Of course, Okamoto-san has said more things that what I've written, but I should already end here, so thanks very much.

Until soon!

Regards,

Mike