https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260505/20260505PM.md; last accessed: 20260506

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The New Dragon Quest Smash Grow App

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-05-06

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's lecture about the new app, Dragon Quest Smash Grow.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AtClEtNmbNw; last accessed: 20260505

> ドラクエ新作アプリ『ドラゴンクエストスマッシュグロウ』について熱く語ります！

## --

It's a mobile app that Square Enix has just launched.

Okamoto-san explains that the game has received a lot of attention for having the Dragon Quest brand as well as because although Square Enix has closed down its other mobile games, it's maintained the service of this game.

Furthermore, Okamoto-san points out that Square Enix's two biggest brands are, first, Final Fantasy and Dragon Quest. However, the performance of the Dragon Quest mobile games aren't currently very fantastic. Still, Square Enix hasn't closed the service of both Dragon Quest Smash Grow and Dragon Quest Takuto. Further, he emphasizes that even the Hoshi no Dragon Quest game, which the studio had maintained for 10 years, has finally been shut down.

Therefore, Okamoto-san believes that the release of a new Dragon Quest title is very welcome, so much so that it has been well-received by gamers. According to data, the game has taken the 4th place in general sales, though the best is that it's taken the 1st place for sales within the app or in-app purchases, only, very quickly, the game fell to number 15. Okamoto-san explains that it's because there are older people who love the Dragon Quest franchise, such that they've put money within the app in the beginning. However, the game hasn't received more money afterward.

Okamoto-san also says that it's a roguelite game wherein the items needed in order to grow are obtained after defeating the enemies. In addition, through this, the character can level-up. During this moment, the player can choose an ability among three options generated randomly. Thus, it's a game in which the player wins by using certain abilities, something that Okamoto-san likes.

Furthermore, Okamoto-san points out that Sanada-san, the president of KLab, the game developer, has praised Dragon Quest Smash Grow. Still, Okamoto-san believes that it appears that it's because Sanada-san doesn't play games, only wants to raise the share value of his own studio, or only says what he really doesn't believe. Further, Okamoto-san has observed that the price of the game increased from 300 yen to 400 yen, although it's clear that Sanada-san is referring to 2,000 yen. Okamoto-san believes that, perhaps, the amount is the combination of other brands, specifically, Hero Academia and Jojo's Bizarre Adventure, in addition to Dragon Quest. Okamoto-san also says that in reality, the value of Square Enix hasn't gone up because of this game, although KLab's value temporarily has.

Okamoto-san explains that it's because the game's gameplay is one that can be found in other titles as well. So Dragon Quest Smash Grow uses the Dragon Quest brand, while making use of Archer Densetsu's gameplay in a 20-80 ratio. The latter, Okamoto-san really likes, although it has an already much-used gameplay. Also, the Dragon Quest franchise has many characters in its over 10 installments, yet when a game only continues to use the same boss every time, of course, it won't be interesting. More specifically, he gives the example of the Golem boss, which, at the start, the player can't defeat, but could already do so later. However, the next boss will still be the Golem, something that Okamoto-san doesn't like.

With respect to the mobile games business, Okamoto-san advises aiming for a period of 10 years for an app. Further, within these 10 years, there are years when it loses money, so the studio must check user comments in order to improve the app. Also, although the studio has released the legendary Loto attire, which can be found and worn, Okamoto-san thinks that it's like the Rofu in Sangokushi, which can be obtained for free in order to attract players.

In addition, Okamoto-san reveals that on the first day when the game was released, it received a million downloads. During that time, Okamoto-san believes that the balancing of the game wasn't bad. Now, however, he doubts if he himself would continue or not after this milestone. He's also observed that the game's sales continue to fall, such that Okamoto-san advises continuing to put the in-app purchase function for the sake of the older people who love the Dragon Quest brand. He thinks that it's very difficult to attract young gamers who've gotten used to quick movements, such that using options to choose actions will be better for people like Okamoto-san.

Finally, Okamoto-san concludes that he encourages developers KLab and Square Enix to improve the game.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike
