https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2026/202605/20260531/20260531PM.md; last accessed: 20260601

> Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The conversation between Yoshiki Okamoto and Masahiro Sakurai, the creator of Kirby and Smash Bros.

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2026-06-01

## --

Dear friends,

Today I'd like to share with you the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr Masahiro Sakurai, the creator of Kirby and Smash Bros, three years ago.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gkMDT5dQJeg; last accessed: 20260531

> 〈第１回〉ゲームクリエイターになったワケ！桜井政博さんの人生を深堀してみました【対談】

## --

While I've already written something about this talk previously, I'd like to share with you again what we can learn from it, while highlighting parts that I wasn't able to talk about as much.

When Okamoto-san and Masahiro-san speak about creating pixels as well as the names they used in games such as Street Fighter II and the first Kirby for the Game Boy. Okamoto-san mentions the game, Red Arima (Reddo Ariimaa Makaimura Gaiden), as his response to Masahiro-san about the use of animations to create a better motion effect in Kirby. He recounts that the game was launched for the Game Boy in 1990 by another Capcom team that used more animation frames to bring in fluidity. Masahiro-san comments that this improvement might not be very obvious on Game Boy.

Another thing that Okamoto-san reveals in this video about video game development is that he learns from bestselling titles in order to understand the reason why they've achieved a lot of success, also pointing out that he looks for what can still be improved. We recall that in another video, Masahiro-san prefers to play non-bestselling games. Okamoto-san also explains that it's because he doesn't have a lot of time to play, so he focuses on some that have become successful and which he also likes very much. Further, he gives the example of contests for ugly women that he views to clarify this point.

This is all. I conclude my email for you here.

Thanks very much.

Regards,

Mike
