https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202512/20251203/20251203PM.md; last accessed: 20251204

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The Importance of Educational Attainment

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-12-04

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto's talk about educational attainment.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HFslCXL9uC0; last accessed: 20251204

> 役人は学歴コンプ？知事の学歴詐称問題について思うこと｜岡本吉起塾Ch

## --

In particular, he talks about the problem of false information that some people send when they submit documents in order to find a job.

Okamoto-san explains that we need to investigate the reasons why these people do this. 

He says that, first and foremost, people in the prefecture don't listen if the educational attainment of a person isn't high. Next, these people, who send false information, want the reputation that big universities like Todai (University of Tokyo) or Kyodai (Kyoto University) have.

Although presidents of small or medium-sized companies might be earning a lot of money, they don't get the same fame or the same reputation like those in large corporations. Therefore, graduating from prestigious universities, serving as president in a large corporation or being its founder brings about this prestige in the form of awards, among other things that recognize them and their achievements. 

However, these things aren't directly related to money. Instead, they help the person maintain his pride. Okamoto-san believes that we humans prefer to be acknowledged by people instead of only receiving money in order to feel happy.

So, a high educational attainment is a step toward acquiring this prestige.

While people in Japan, or any country in the world for that matter, do not immediately trust people who don't have a high educational attainment, Okamoto-san believes that what's most important is to own real human qualities, that is to say, those that are based on what a person actually does, what he thinks, in other words, his character. Okamoto-san gives the example in which, in the final analysis, educational attainment doesn't mean anything if the person cheats or receives bribes. 

Okamoto-san then shares the struggle of Ms. Takubo, who had been a former mayor. She's currently being suspected of providing a fake educational attainment.

Finally, Okamoto-san hopes that we may discern well which people are suitable to serve in government, especially when we vote during the elections.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike